---
title: "Chemists Celebrate Earth Day 2012"
heading: "Chemists Celebrate Earth Day Report"
layout: event
category: event
---

Our Chemists Celebrate Earth Day (CCED) celebration plans this year
began in early March when students (Grades K-12) in our Local Section
area were invited through their teachers to submit Illustrated Poems
on the theme "Recycling: It's Easy to be Green". For the first time
ever we received a response from five schools and 3 grade levels (3-5;
6-8; 9-12).  One winning entry from each grade level was selected and
sent on to the National competition (results will be posted on the ACS
website shortly).  On April 21 we once again cooperated with the
Kalamazoo Nature Center (KNC) as host for our outreach during their
Earth Day event - another first was the participation from Kalamazoo
College (Josh Abbott, Lynza Halberstadt, Margarite Matossian, Agust
Olafsson, Caity VanGelderen), Western Michigan University (Brianna
Hyder) and Kalamazoo Valley Community College (Kim Greve) who along
with Lydia Hines, our Section's CCED coordinator, spent a gorgeous day
handing out materials related to this year's CCED theme - *Rethinking
Recycling: It's Easy to be Green* - and sharing the fun and
applications of chemistry with visitors of a large age range. We
talked about *Green Parenting*, Recycling codes, talked about *Magic
Sand* properties, as well as polymers and the use of super- absorbent
polymer in diapers, and made Silly Putty with about 150 young children
– the accompanying parents liked it, too. In all our conversations we
emphasized chemists’ positive contributions to our environment. Though
we did not see as many classroom teachers as in prior years several
home-schooling families came by and were thankful to know about KACS’
outreach efforts