---
title: Chemistry in Comics
heading: Talk on "Chemistry in Comics" Well Received
author: Lydia Hines
layout: event
category: event
---


It was a cool Tuesday, March 26, when about 90 curious listeners -
High School students and parents, High school teachers, WMU faculty
and graduate and undergraduate students, other ACS members - gathered
in a large lecture hall in the Chemistry building at WMU to listen to
the titled talk by Dr. Al Hazari Director of Undergraduate
Laboratories of the Univ. of Tennessee-Knoxville, co-author of a book
"Common misconceptions in Chemistry" and recipient of several awards
for his Public Outreach activities. In addition to the unusual title,
there were pizza and snacks available to attract listeners - these
were enjoyed by a major portion of the audience, too. By way of
slides, books, and "toys" Hazari kept our interest in the thought that
chemical concepts, from the elements to their properties and
reactions, can be found described in comics and in appropriate
lighthearted comments in the popular press; these, then, can be used
not only to pique but also to engage students' interest and more
permanent understanding of chemical/scientific concepts. Dr. Hazari is
not given to slow, deliberate presentations, so we were kept actively
entertained as he presented his slides. He ended this talk with the
demonstration of electrical conductivity by way of his little "travel
companion doll "singing" ring around the rosey..." when the circuit is
complete. In the morning of the same day Dr. Hazari offered to speak
to a 5th grade class at Haverhill Elementary School in Portage; it was
a pleasure to see the children respond with great interest as they
participated in his enthusiastic explanation and demonstration of the
scientific method and some "unexpected" observations - Dr. Hazari acts
on the belief that children are "born scientists" who need to be
encouraged to ask questions and learn how to look for answers.
