---
location: "Sushiya"
time: "18:31"
category: minutes
author: "Carl Stachew"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), Sue Stapleton (SS),
	   Tom Smith (TS), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The September meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Add vote for the bylaw changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *October report* will be reviewed at the November meeting.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Selling t-shirts.
   2. *KCollege* - Electing new officers and moderator. Reports on Dow B-Que and Forsensics Day are pending.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Chemistry Day (Oct 17th)* - (LH) provided an update. 15 events are scheduled. Background check is not helping for recruiting volunteers. (LH) and (CS) will discuss with the museum after Chemistry Day.
   2. *Merck Indexes* - (LH) receiving one pallet containing 17 boxes. She will check with the local libraries. (LH) will make a donation to Al Nieboer on October 20 at Kalamazoo Christian High School for a photo opportunity to show Merck the donations are being completed. Members are requested to contact local high school teachers to determine interest.
   3. *Science Café* - Postpone until Feb/March next year.
   4. *Fall Social* - Postpone until spring.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Bridging the Gap* - Section received the grant to hold an event for student members. Details are forthcoming, but the general consensus was to provide an opportunity to meet members of the Executive Committee and have information regarding the various outreach programs. A brief presentation designed to attract members (beer/wine fermentation) may be provided depending on speaker availability. Food will be provided. Tentative date is Friday Nov. 6 th around 5:30 to 6PM.
   2. *Elections* - Secretary and Chairman-Elect are the positions available. We need to find a candidate for Chairman-Elect.
7. **Around the Table**
   1. The meeting time was reviewed due to low attendance at recent meetings. Thursday at 7PM will be tried for the next meeting.

Meeting adjourned at 7:30 PM.
Next Meeting: Thursday Nov 5 th at 7PM, location to be determined.
