---
location: "TGI Friday's"
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Michael Kiella (MK), Patrick Irish (PI), John Miller (JM),
	   Donald Schreiber (DS), Lydia E. M. Hines (LH), Wallis Hines (WH),
	   Katie Diffendorfer (KD), Tom Smith (TS)]
---

1. **Secretary 's Report**
   1. The Minutes from the 1 April 2009 meeting were approved with the correction that the date should indicate 1 April 2009
   2. Updates were added to the Action Item Table: member meeting in November (MK working on this); Science Cafes in Sept, Oct, Nov; Great Lakes Region Steering Comm meeting May 16, 2009; Solicitation of nominations for Teacher of the Year be moved to February of each year; Girl Scouts Badge Event ,3 Feb 2010 (confirmed after the meeting). Some changes in initials and dates were also made.
2. **Treasurer's Report**
   1. The May report was approved.
   2. An additional expense of $60 was approved for the Competitive Exam Awards due to a 3-way tie for 18th place
   3. A line will be added to the budget for the Survey Monkey expense for the website questionnaire
3. **Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - No student rep was present, but DS reported that they continued to go to schools to do demonstrations
   2. *K-College* - Katie Diffendorfer was present to report that K-Collcge is having Forensics Day for KPS Middle School students on May 19, and that their annual DowBQue (for the entire student body to learn about the learning in the Dow Science budding) would also be coming up in May. They requested funding of $275 for both activities and that expense was approved. Expenses will be reimbursed as receipts are turned in to the treasurer. They will give us a report on the activities after they are completed.
4. **Old Business**
   1. The website questionnaire will be sent out in May
   2. In Carl Stachew's absence the Bylaws ' approval for distribution and vote by the membership was tabled
   3. The Awards Reception is on target for May 18 and invitations will be sent out soon. There was extensive discussion concerning how to get better response to our search for and get infonnation about Section Teacher of the Year LH and MK will investigate how to contact the Section 's High School Parent-Teacher Organizations to see if contact with these may result in a larger number of teacher nominations and/or better and more timely response from the nominated teachers
5. **New Business**
   1. Lydia requested guidance concerning her upcoming panicipation on May 16 in the Great Lakes Steering Committee discussion concerning incorporation of the Great Lakes Region. Consensus was that considering dissolution of the Region and realigning ourselves with the Central Region is a viable option. [All other Regions have already incorporated)
6. **Around the Table**
   1. MK expressed thanks to K College for hosting our last speaker, Dr. Bates, for the April meeting where about 45 members were in the audience; TS also mentioned that the students had a lively discussion with Dr. Bates before the formal lecture
   2. LH announced that ACS President Tom Lane's offer of $1,000, to a Section which could help in the sign-up of 100,000 members in 2009, meant that we would be eligible for that bonus if we were to recruit 50 new members.
   3. LH announced that letters of invitation to the Awards Reception had been sent to the 50- and 60- year members
   4. LH distributed the Chemvention competition criteria to the student affi liate representatives from WMU and K-College
   5. LH distributed her report concerning the Section 's activity for CCED
   6. MK will be gathering responses from WMU (JM) and K-College (TS) about our Section's efforts in the area of Sustainability and will respond to the ACS call for information about Local Sections' activities on this subject.

Next meeting will be on 3 June 2009, at 18:30 "somewhere outdoors", so stay tuned.