---
location: "TGI Fridays"
time: "18:40"
author: "Lydia Hines"
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Dean Cooke (DC), Lydia Hines (LH), Wally Hines (WH),
	   Don Schreiber (DS), Tom Smith (TS), Sue Stapleton (SS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The February Minutes were approved with the correction that Dean Cooke was to be added to the list of meeting attendees.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Typographical corrections to be made; otherwise unchanged.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** - Approval postponed due to absence of JM, treasurer.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU Chem Club* - participating at the Science Olympiad Regional competition at WMU by offering demonstrations during the break time
   2. *K College* - In the Spring term the Student affiliate group plans to participate in a Brewery Tour at Bell’s Brewery.
4. **Old Business**
   1. Girl Scout Merit badge follow-up: 56/64 Girls participated at WMU on February 14 in the hands-on program for the fulfillment of their Regional Chemistry Merit Badge; the event went smoothly and the Girl Scout Council seemed very happy with the outcome
   2. *Website* - The questionnaire has not yet been sent out to members, but will be soon. (DS)
   3. *High School Science Symposium* - The invitation was sent out to High Schools in 7 counties in Southwest Michigan: 91 HS students and their teachers participated in this Symposium at WMU on March 3, 2009; this was an increase from the 2008 attendance; some different schools participated
   4. *Competitive Exam Committee Chair* - We welcome David Huffman, WMU Chemistry professor, who has agreed to take on the responsibility as chair of this committee, and we thank David Reinhold for his service for the last 10 (?) Years.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Spring Tour Speaker* - Dr. Robert P. Bates, from the ACS Speaker Service, will be our Speaker; he will present a lecture titled “What you Always wanted to know about Chemicals in Foods but were Afraid to Eat” on Wednesday, April 8, 2009, at 5:30 pm in Room 226 of the Dow Chemistry Building Lecture Hall at Kalamazoo College. Joe Thorstenson at KAMSC will be contacted (LH) concerning a possible time for Dr. Bates to meet with the students there after 12 noon on that day, and the Kalamazoo College chemistry students will have an informal session with him later that afternoon (TS) before his lecture that evening.
   2. *Chemistry Scholarship exam* - The first mailing should be going out soon, and the final exam will likely be on Saturday, April 25 (DH).
   3. Annual Report was submitted before the February 15, 2009 deadline.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. DC expressed disappointment that the C&EN article ( February 23, 2009) on [Kalamazoo] “An unlikely hotspot” did not mention the Kalamazoo Local Section, nor WMU as the host of the Business and Tech Research Park.
   2. DC reported that he is still hearing positive comments from members who attended our Fall 2008 meeting (Caldecott Award Committee member as speaker) with the expression of hope that a similar program will be held again.
   3. LH distributed information to the WMU and KCollege faculty members concerning a possible activity for their students to consider doing during the Chemists Celebrate Earth Day (CCED) celebration [the 2009 topic is “The Sky’s the Limit”] – an outreach to the community to encourage ways to “decrease their carbon footprint”. She also distributed informational fliers concerning the Haiku/poster contest for K-12 students; she has disseminated the information to the HS teachers throughout the KACS, but contact with the Middle and Grade Schools was minimal; SS will contact Middle School science teachers about this contest.
   4. LH also presented the few action items to be taken up at Council Meeting in Salt Lake City: dues escalation (per formula) to $145 for 2010; selection by council of 2 candidates for President-Elect to be submitted to the membership for a vote in the Fall; and the one item for consideration, i.e., shortening the time interval between selection of nominees for national office and the election, as well as arranging for a petition candidate to address the Council at the same time as the N&E selected nominees.
   5. LH requested input on the topic for discussion on Council floor at this meeting: “What can ACS do to attract new members while better serving our membership during these challenging economic times”?

Meeting adjourned at 19:40.

Next Meeting will be on Wednesday April 1, 2009, 18:30 at TGI Fridays
