---
location: "Sushiya"
time: "18:35"
category: minutes
author: "Carl Stachew"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), John Miller (JM),
	   Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The October meeting minutes were approved. There were no November minutes.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Change dates listed as 2008 to 2009.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. The November report was approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Conducting demonstrations at Amberly and Haverhill in Feb 2010.
   2. *KCollege* - No update. Reports on Dow B-Que and Forsensics Day are pending.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Student Member social* - Coordinate with K-College for a suitable date.
   2. *Elections* - Doug Williams is the Chair Elect. Carl Stachew is the Secretary. CS to complete officer information form and turn in election results.
   3. *Science Café* - Speakers are selected. Topic is evolution. Feb/March next year. Contact local libraries to determine if they want to host a Café.
6. **New Business**
   1. 2010 Budget was submitted by JM and approved.
7. **Around the Table**
   1. *Merck Indexes* - Delivered Merck index to Al Nieboer (Kalamazoo Christian High School) on October 20 and a picture of the donation was sent to the ACS. Eight indexes were given to area libraries and 24 were given away at Michigan Bio. Other targeted events for donations in 2010 include the High School Science Symposium and the Chemistry Awards Reception.
   2. LH presented a summary of the National Chemistry Week activities by the local section.

Meeting adjourned at 7:30 PM.
Next Meeting: January 2010, time and location to be determined.
