---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "TGI Fridays"
time: "18:05"
author: "Carl Stachew"
roll-call: [John Miller (JM), Tom Smith (TS), Pat Irish (PI), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   Don Schreiber (DS), Kim Greve (KG), Sue Stapleton (SS),
	   Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The Dec meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Add Girl Scouts Day on Feb 14 th . Add action to complete insurance waiver for this event.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Dec report approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Demo planned for MLK day on campus.
   2. *Kcollege* - Hosting annual forensics day. Membership drives: bowling event and information table for second year student major declaration day.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Annual Report* - DS will review current information and get back to anyone with questions.
   2. *Website* - DS will compile the survey questions and send to everyone for review. After the questions are finalized, the survey will be sent to the membership. We will use the ACS hosting services unless the membership wants content the ACS can’t support.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Alex Cazer’s Memorial Fund* - Alex was an active member of the society who recently passed away. His wife indicated she wants the proceeds of donations in Alex’s name be used for the competitive exam scholarship. EC will make sure proper recognition is given to Alex and his wife for their generosity.
   2. *Girl Scouts Day* (Feb 14, 2009) - Volunteer request will be sent by JM. CS to provide demonstration kits to KG from PEI.
   3. JM was offered a debit/credit card for use with the local section account. The EC discussed advantages of eliminating need to get reimbursed versus potential costs of getting new cards each time a new officer is elected. JM will investigate the potential costs with our bank.
6. **Around the table**
   1. LH noted the SOLAR online training for completing the annual report offered nothing new.
   2. DS contacted National ACS to inform them we will only host a spring tour speaker.
   3. Meetings will be moved to 6:30 PM to accommodate everyone’s schedule.
   4. Evan Garret’s presentation was well received. His advisor received positive feedback from colleagues.

Meeting adjourned at 19:09.

Next Meeting: Wednesday 4 Feb 2009 at 18:30 at TGI Fridays.
