---
location: "Bell's"
time: "18:35"
category: minutes
author: "Carl Stachew"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [John Miller (JM), Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS),
	   Mike Kiella (MK), Dean Cooke (DC), Kim Greve (KG),
	   Sue Stapleton (SS), Tom Smith (TS), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The May meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Add task: Obtain insurance for Girl Scouts Day.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. May report was approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - No update. Summer break for students.
   2. *KCollege* - Held Forensics Day event and Dow B-Que event. The students will submit a report on these events. The student affiliates will be electing new officers.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Website* - Postcards sent with link. (JM) will send e-mail to members with link. Not all members are getting their postcards. (LH) noted the survey doesn’t allow multiple submissions (different people) from the same computer. (JM) will look into the issue.
   2. *Bylaw updates* - All in attendance approved the draft sent last week with updates based on feedback from the Committee on Constitution and Bylaws. One clarification will be made to page 10 section D regarding holding a special election.
5. **New Business**
   1. Pictures are available from the 2009 Chemistry Awards banquet.
   2. The Great Lakes Region has incorporated. This means we will need to host a regional meeting. We can co-host a meeting with another section from any region to satisfy our commitment. The next regional meeting will be held in 2011 hosted by the Indianapolis Section and the Wabash Valley Section.
6. **Around the table**
   1. The Paper Chemical Engineering Group is looking to partner with us for outreach events. Possible events include Girl Scouts Merit Badge Day and Chemistry Day at the Museum. (SS)
   2. (MK) hosted ten presentations for Allegan students at their Careers Day on May 28th . The USP test for sodium in water was presented.

Meeting adjourned at 19:30.

Next Meeting: Wednesday 5 August 2009 at 18:30 at a location to be determined.
