---
location: "John Miller's house"
time: "18:35"
category: minutes
author: "Carl Stachew"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [John Miller (JM), Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS),
	   Mike Kiella (MK), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The June meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Update the Girl Scouts Day to Feb, 13 2010.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. The Cazer’s Memorial fund will be liquidated and applied to the scholarship awards program. June report was approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - No update. Summer break for students.
   2. *KCollege* - The reports on the Forensics Day event and Dow B-Que event are still pending.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Website* - (JM) will send e-mail to members with link.
   2. *Bylaw updates* - (JM) to send the latest draft by e-mail to members. Members have 30 days to comment.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Chemistry Day* - (LH) will send out a request for volunteers. (LH) asked for contacts to distribute information regarding the National Chemistry Day poster contest.
   2. *Science Café* - The fall theme will be Evolution. Two speakers have been identified. Tentative dates are the third Monday in Sept, Oct and Nov at Bell’s.
   3. *Fall Social* - Details are still pending on this event.
6. **Around the table**
   1. (LH) noted the section can use the [Online Speaker Service](http://portal.acs.org/portal/acs/corg/content?_nfpb=true&_pageLabel=PP_SUPERARTICLE&node_id=1225&use_sec=false&sec_url_var=region1&__uuid=) to contact tour speakers directly. (LH) stated that 100 Merck Indexes have been ordered for our section. Target donations include high school libraries and scholarship award winners. (LH) reminded everyone that grants are available to partner with community organizations for science outreach.
   2. Councilor’s Meeting Agenda at the Fall 2009 meeting: The Council wants the opportunity to review all petition candidates. Discussion focused on the role of Council and the rights of members to vote for any candidate wishing to pursue a National office. (LH) commented she would not vote for this amendment based on feedback provided by other members of the EC.

Meeting adjourned at 19:30.
Next Meeting: Wednesday 2 September 2009 at 18:30 at a location to be determined.
