---
location: "TGI Friday's"
time: "18:30"
category: minutes
author: "Carl Stachew"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [John Miller (JM), Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS),
	   Mike Kiella (MK), Kristin Bevins (KB), Dean Cooke (DC),
	   Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The March meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Add Museum Day Oct 17 th 12-4 PM, Great Lakes Regional Meeting (steering committee) May 16th
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. March and April reports were approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - T-shirt design has been finalized. Chem Club assisted with the Girl Scouts Merit Badge Day. Conducted demos for Plainwell science night and at the regional Science Olympiad at WMU.
   2. *Kcollege* - No update.
4. **Old Business**
   1. Spring tour speaker notification sent to members. The event will be held in Room 226 in the Dow building at Kcollege on Wed April 8 at 5:30 PM.
   2. *Website* - Reviewed questions. Changes were made to shorten the survey to three primary questions with options listed below each primary question. DS will revise survey and place on Survey Monkey website for members to respond. Notification will be sent to members about the survey.
5. **New Business**
   1. Spring awards reception is May 18. A reception will be held in the lobby of the chemistry building at WMU. There is no cost for attendance.
   2. *Bylaws* - CS will send out feedback received from the Bylaws Committee. The approach will be to make every change recommended unless someone objects to any of the “suggested”changes. Revised bylaws will be completed for the May meeting.
6. **Around the table**
   1. LH provided the councilor report from the ACS meeting in Salt Lake City. A few of the highlights in the report are the financial health of the society, membership drive challenges and news from the Local Section Activities Committee. Contact Lydia for a copy.

Meeting adjourned at 19:30
Next Meeting: Wednesday 6 May 2009 at 18:30 at TGI Fridays.
