---
location: "TGI Fridays"
time: "18:30"
category: minutes
author: "Carl Stachew"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [John Miller (JM), Pat Irish (PI), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   Don Schreiber (DS), Kim Greve (KG), Sue Stapleton (SS),
	   Mike Kiella (MK), Kristin Bevins (KB), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The January meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Add Project Seed, April Tour Speaker, Awards Banquet, Science Café’s for April, May and June with a possible theme of science education. Other themes are open for suggestion.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. January report approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Welcome Kristin Bevins as the new President of the student affiliates. A group trip to the Science and Industry Museum in Chicago was made in January. Upcoming events are a the Chemistry of Wine and Beer, the Chemistry of Chocolate and the Chemistry of Glass. Will support the regional Science Olympiad event at WMU.
   2. *Kcollege* - No new update.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Annual Report* - Add tour speaker and social event as section meetings. Other edits made at meeting. DS will update and send to LH for signature.
   2. *Website* - DS presented survey questions. Two weeks allowed for feedback on questions. DS will work on completing survey and sending to members.
   3. *Girl Scouts Merit Badge Day* - 64 girls have signed up for event.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Project SEED* - DS proposing KACS funds 1K per student with National ACS supplying 2K per student.
   2. *Chemistry Scholarship Exam* - Chair is stepping down. Need volunteer to take over position.
6. **Around the table**
   1. LH noted the Great Lakes Regional Meeting is May 13-16. She has heard nothing new about incorporation.

Meeting adjourned at 19:30.

Next Meeting: Wednesday 4 March 2009 at 18:30 at TGI Fridays.
