---
location: "Sushiya"
time: "18:45"
category: minutes
author: "Carl Stachew"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), Sue Stapleton (SS),
	   Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The August meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Add the Harmon lecture.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. August (corrected) and September reports were approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Will have table at the Major Excitement Day.
   2. *KCollege* - No update. The reports on the Forensics Day event and Dow B-Que event are still pending.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Website* - DS distributed survey results. 34 completed responses were received. Highlights are listed. 78% have accessed the website. 50% indicated the website is their preferred method for obtaining information about the local section. 71% indicated an updated website would be useful. The preferred content was information about the local section and its activities along with job postings. 100% indicated they didn’t know someone to help update the website. Next action: DS to contact the current webmaster to update site based on the survey results.
   2. *Bylaw updates* - Two affirmative responses received. Next step is to send the document for final approval to the Council Committee on Consitution and Bylaws.
   3. *Chemistry Day (Oct 17th)* - (LH) sent out a request for volunteers.
   4. *Science Café* - No update.
   5. *Fall Social* - No update.
6. **New Business**
   1. DS will send proposal to National for the “Bridging the Gap” nano-grant. The main goal of meeting new student members is to introduce them to the section and its activities.
7. **Around the Table**
   1. LH distributed the Councilor Report from the ACS National Meeting in Washington D. C. The issue of screening petition candidates by Council was tabled for the next meeting.

Meeting adjourned at 19:30
Next Meeting: To be determined.
