---
location: "Sushiya"
time: "18:40"
category: minutes
author: "Susan Stapleton"
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), John Miller (JM),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Tom Smith (TS), Susan Stapleton (SS),
	   Andre Venter (AV)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. LH moved to approve the March minutes, DS seconded - minutes approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Added to table-National Chemistry Week Oct. 17-23 (our participation at the museum is Oct. 16), 2010 and Project SEED reception TBA.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. DS moved to approve the April treasurer’s report, LH seconded - report approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Conducted outreach activities at Plainwell Science Night and Amberly Elementary (April 19 th ) and also Science Olympiad - region 10 at WMU.
   2. *KCollege* - Jeff Bartz is now the coordinator and the group is planning a visit to Kalsec on April 5.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Science Café* - JM has arranged to use for a fee the upstairs room at Martini’s for the science cafe. First one is tentatively scheduled for May 18th , speaker Todd Barkman and the topic will be chemical genetics.
   2. *Bridging the Gap* social event for welcoming student members is scheduled for April 6 th at 6PM at the WMU chemistry building. JM will contact public safety concerning use of bbq grills. DW and CS contacted local companies and brief talks will be presented. DW will send email reminder to membership.
5. **New Business**
   1. DW will be using the soon to be launched speaker directory to arrange for 2011 speakers.
   2. LH provided a detailed councilor’s report from the spring ACS meeting. Highlights included election results- Echegoyen and Shakhashiri as candidates for 2011; society finances- while 2009 revenue did not meet budget, shortfall was expected and planned for; member statistics- membership up; spring mtg- attendance was very good.
   3. AV presented a proposal to develop a local section topical group for mass spectrometry users. Proposal was discussed, DS moved and JM seconded that the mass spectrometry topical group be established with AV serving as the liaison of the group to the EC. Motion passed. DW will work with AV to investigate grant opportunities to support speakers, etc. Announcement of the group will be sent to membership.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. LH has been making calls to area principals to seek nominations for HS chemistry teacher award. Also discussed was presenting some of the Merck Indexes to students.
   2. At the awards banquet, we will have recognition for 2 60 yr and 1 50 yr members.
   3. DW indicated he would like to announce at the Bridging the Gap social the availability of possibly two positions for our section- Corresponding Secretary to help with advertisements and a Social Chair to help with social gatherings for the section. Description of duties will be drafted by DW and SS.
   4. Entries for the 2010 CCED Poster-Poem contest were received from Saugatuck High School.

Next Meeting: May 6 2010, Sushiya at 18:30
