---
location: Bell's Brewery
time: 18:45
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), John Miller (JM),
Doug Williams (DW), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. May minutes approved with one correction. Add LH to the Earth Day report.
   2. Action Item Table: Science Café moved to Sept. Project Seed reception is tentatively scheduled for Aug 9 th . Change the date for Chemistry Day at the Museum to Oct 16 th . Update table for 2011 events at August meeting.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Approved with no changes.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. WMU: New officers will be taking over in Sept.
   2. KCollege: No update.
4. **Old Business**
   1. Science Café: 30 people attended the May 18 th café at Martini’s. JM completed a report that is available on the website.
   2. Chemistry awards were presented with 100 people in attendance. Two outstanding college student awards, eight outstanding high school student awards, two outstanding high school teacher awards and twenty exam winners were given at the ceremony. Each student and teacher awardee received a complimentary copy of the 14 th edition of the Merck Index. Awards were also given to 50-year member, Verlan VanRheenen, 60-year members, John Kittredge and Howard Burke, and one award for outstanding local section volunteer, Carl Stachew.
5. **New Business**
   1. JM provided a comprehensive review of the investment choices presented to us from National ACS. EC approved the fund recommendations from JM, the Vanguard Wellesley Income Fund and the T.Rowe Price Capital Appreciation Fund. Both funds have low expense ratios, consistent to better than market performance and stable management .
   2. Another Bridging the Gap grant is available for providing an event for undergraduate student members. Send your ideas to DW. The application deadline is August.
   3. Speaker’s Directory: DW passed out several biographies for potential speakers in March. Contact DW for the biographies or a recommendation.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. DS noted Project Seed is continuing this summer with one new summer I student and a returning summer II student.
   2. LH presented an update on Chemistry Day. This year’s theme is Behind the Scenes. DW will contact local theater groups to find a representative who candiscuss the science behind theater productions. PCHS vice principal was a chemistry teacher and is active in theater productions. A 1⁄2 hour show is planned with Keith Roe. The goal is to have representatives from the community speak to chemistry behind the scenes.

Next Meeting: 5 August 2010 at Sushiya at 18:30