---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
location: Sushiya
time: "18:40"
roll-call: [Sue Stapleton (SS), John Miller (JM), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Kim Greve (KG), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. Secretary’s Report
   1. November minutes were approved with no changes.
   2. *Action Item Table* - No changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Nov. Treasurer’s Report was approved with no changes.
   2. *Budget proposal for 2011* - Only comment was to remove the second $400 entry from the speaker fund. National will reimburse sections for $400 maximum once per calendar year. Will be sharing expenses with the Western Michigan and St. Joseph sections for the spring speaker.
   3. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - pending actual investment of funds.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - No update.
   2. *KCollege* - No update.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Spring Speaker update* - DW to survey members on Dr. Heindel’s presentation choices using Survey Monkey.
   2. *Elections* (CS & DW) - John Miller was elected unanimously (41 to 0) for Treasurer.
   3. *Use of Surplus* - $1200 has been approved for 2011 with up to $400 per grant for professional development (short course, meeting) for unemployed members. Next meeting will further discuss how to implement this program in 2011. Targeting late summer/fall for rolling it out to the members.
   4. *Operations Manual* - DW will make updates and submit for approval by e-mail.
5. **New Business**
   1. *January event* - DW proposing a mixer where members can present old posters or have an informal discussion panel on business consulting. The event will be held on Jan 20 th from 6 PM to 8 PM in the WMU Chemistry Building
   2. December newsletter will contain the election results, a calendar of upcoming events, the spring speaker survey notice and Girl Scouts Day request for volunteers. A puzzle will be added with a token prize for being first to complete.
   3. *Project Seed* - Tabled for next meeting.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. DW to complete the list of local companies on the web site. Meeting Adjourned 19:47

Next Meeting: First or second week of January. Watch for notice to vote for your
preference.
