---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
location: Sushiya
time: 18:40
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Sue Stapleton (SS), John Miller (JM),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Dave Bolliet (DB), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. October minutes approved with no changes.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Changing to 12 month rolling list. New items Project Seed Application due date, IPG grant application due date, Recycled Science Symposium, Feb 2011 Science Café
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Oct. Treasurer’s Report was approved with no changes.
   2. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - T. Rowe Price has not been receptive to the section having an account. JM will pursue Vanguard as the investment selection across 2-3 different funds.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - No update.
   2. *KCollege* - No update.
4. **Old Business**
   1. Fall speaker event was successful with 35 in attendance.
   2. *Spring Speaker update* - Dr. Heindel confirmed the spring date and will make his own travel plans. We are the host section and will underwrite his travel expenses. DW to determine if the other local sections will pay us directly for their share of the cost or we get reimbursed through National. DW to determine if Pfizer Animal Health has an interest in hosting a second talk during the day. DW to survey members on Dr. Heindel’s presentation choices using Survey Monkey.
   3. *National Chemistry Week* - Another successful event. See attached write up of the events.
   4. *Elections* (DW) - Election notice sent and votes are coming into the Survey Monkey website.
   5. *Use of Surplus* - JM recommended using a portion of these funds to provide grants to unemployed members for career development or attending meetings at $400 each. The Exec. Committee agreed and JM offered to develop the criteria for submitting proposals.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Operations Manual* - Remove the Local Section and Nominating Committee. Bylaws state the Chair-Elect will appoint one as necessary. Remove Newsletter Editor. New Communications Chair assumes this responsibility. Remove Social Committee since we don’t have one. LH recommended the Chair of each named committee or function review the duties under their respective ownership to ensure they are accurate.
   2. *Communications Chair Appointment* - Dave Bolliet (DB) from Kalsec has agreed to assume the role. DB offered to setup a Facebook page for the local section. A draft page will be completed and the Exec. Committee will be invited to join and review. DB offered several suggestions for a simple newsletter to highlight local members and companies and to post upcoming activities. DB recommended adding a puzzle for members to complete as a way to increase participation on the Facebook page. We welcome Dave and look forward to his participation in the local section.
   3. *Budget Proposal* - JM prepared a 2010 budget summary and the proposed 2011 budget. Minor changes to the 2011 budget are proposed to reflect changes in the expense section. Costs for postcard mailings have reduced significantly and the WMU and KCollege student groups have not typically spent their allotted funds. A category for budget surplus will be added for the travel/career development grants for students and unemployed members. In recent years the local section hasn’t needed to tap into WMU foundation funds for the teacher/student awards banquet, but may need to in 2011.
   4. *Project Seed 2011* - Deferred until next meeting. DS is recovering from surgery and we are encouraged by the early prognosis and wish him a speedy recovery.
   5. *Staff Recognition* - Robin Lenkhart will be recognized with a $50 gift card for her efforts to go above and beyond expectations for assisting with local section activities.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. LH provided a handout on ways to provide outreach for the International Year of Chemistry.

Meeting Adjourned 20:30

Next Meeting: Dec. 2 18:30 at Sushiya
