---
location: Sushiya
time: "18:40"
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), John Miller (JM),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The February meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Remove Girl Scout Merit Badge Day items. KACS Earth Day event at the Nature Center will be on April 17 th . Chemistry Scholarship Exam dates are March 23 for the preliminary exam and April 24 for the final exam. Add Student Member Social for April 6 and National Chemistry Week Oct 2010.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. The March treasurer’s report was approved.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Conducted outreach activities at Haverhill Elementary and Lake Center Science Night. Demonstrations planned for Plainwell Science Night and Amberly Elementary (April 19th).
   2. *KCollege* - No update.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Science Café* - Dates and speakers are pending.
   2. Bridging the Gap social event for welcoming student members is scheduled for April 6 th at 6PM. Need to determine if K-College student members are coming. DW and CS will contact local companies about participating.
   3. *High School Science Symposium* - 68 participants from 6 schools with great student participation observed based on questions asked during lectures
   4. 2009 annual report was submitted.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Agenda* - CS will publish draft with minutes and wait 1 week for updates before sending agenda to Webmaster for posting. Updates after deadline will just be added at the meeting.
   2. *Local company focus series* - Discussed ways to showcase local companies to membership. First step will attempt to get participation at the student member social event. Next step after talking with companies would be a panel discussion or science café series.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. LH commented on the distinction between affiliates and members. Student members are members.

Meeting adjourned at 19:50.
Next Meeting: 1 April 2010, Sushiya at 18:30.
