---
location: "Sushiya"
time: "18:35"
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), John Miller (JM),
	   Mike Kiella (MK), Sue Stapleton (SS), Kim Greve (KG),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Pat Irish (PI), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. The December meeting minutes were approved.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Combine the Councilor certification, officer biographies and committee chair designations into one task. Move the members meeting to a later date. Nominations for the Section Award for Outstanding Service are due to LH by April 17, 2010. The Awards reception banquet will be in May 2010.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. The February treasurer’s report was approved. The 2009 income and expense summary was reviewed with no objections.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU* - Conducting demonstrations at Amberly, Haverhill elementary schools this month. Participating in the Lake Center science night with PEI this month. Demonstration is planned for Plainwell High School.
   2. *KCollege* - Written report on Dow B-Que is pending. The faculty is evaluating the role of the ACS student member group as departments are incorporating community outreach into their curriculums.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Girl School Merit Badge day* was cancelled due to lack of participation. TS offered to have the K-College outreach group provide hands on demonstrations to the troups that signed up for the event. Pfizer outreach group may assist if needed.
   2. *Science Café* - Theme was changed to Planet Earth with presentations on the geosphere, biosphere and anthrosphere. Dates and speakers are pending.
   3. Bridging the Gap social event for welcoming student members is tentatively scheduled for April 6 th at 6PM. Need to confirm date will work for K-College student members. Students prefer to have a pot luck dinner. Grant will be used to supplement the pot luck dinner.
   4. *Tour Speaker* - SS confirmed a speaker for Oct 2010. Details will be provided in a future meeting.
5. **New Business**
   1. *2009 annual report* - Addressed questions on the report requiring more information. DS to finalize report and submit for final review to the EC before sending to National ACS.
   2. *Leadership institute* - DW provided a summary of his participation at the New Officers Conference and a list of items he wants to review in order to contribute to the section.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. PI would like to add an agenda item for the March meeting to discuss formation and scope of a mass spec users group.
   2. LH commended the ACS Constitution and Bylaws committee for the fast response to finalizing our new bylaws. The EC concurs.
   3. DS noted the High School Science Symposium is set for March 2, 2010 from 9AM to 1PM in the chemistry building at WMU.
   4. *Communication* - During the meeting members discussed the need to improve communication to the local membership and within the EC. MK suggested that communication be a topic for the next meeting. LH offered to take the responsibility for communicating upcoming events to the local membership.

Meeting adjourned at 20:30.
Next Meeting: March 3 2010, location to be determined.
