---
location: Hunan Gardens
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Kim Greve (KG), Lydia Hines (LH), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Doug Williams (DW), and Susan Stapleton (SS)]
---

No quorum was present so notes are informational only.

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. Minutes from the June meeting were reviewed as was action item table.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Treasurer’s report was reviewed.
3. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU Chem Club* - no news
   2. *Kalamazoo College* - no student activities during the summer. TS did indicate
that K-College had a lab manager position open and that chemistry classes, in
particular organic were oversubscribed.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Bridging the Gap Nano-grant* – nothing submitted for the Aug. 2 deadline
   2. *Science Cafe* – planned for Sept.
   3. *Follow Up on Fund Investments* – JM had not received any confirmation from ACS yet
   4. *Spring Speaker Update* – DW reported that a spring speaker will most likely be scheduled for late March, early April.
   5. *National Chemistry Week Update* – LH reported that a few individuals have volunteered to be interviewed on Public Access. Lydia has contacted the theater department at WMU to encourage their participation. Doug is working with Jason Frink (chemistry teacher, asst. principal, Portage Central) to deliver a program at the KVM theater on Chemistry Day.
5. **New Business**
   1. Use of Surplus
   2. *Elections* - DW indicated he was working on identifying candidates. LH reminded us that it was important to follow the ACS process
   3. Discussion of policy/procedures for listing job advertisements on the web site-discussion centered on timeline for posting.
   4. *ACS Sparkle Communications Workshop* - the date for this workshop is Oct 15-17. Deadline for registration is Aug. 16.
6. **Around the Table**

LH indicated she would be attending the council meeting in Boston.