---
location: Sushiya
time: "18:40"
category: minutes
author: Susan Stapleton
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Susan Stapleton (SS), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

Since no quorum was present, no action was taken. Minutes are informational.

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. Minutes from April meeting (minutes were not available for review, however, SS indicated all corrections noted were incorporated.
   2. *Action Item Table* - reviewed
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *May Treasurer’s Report* - sent to SS from JM for review.
3. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Affiliates**
   1. *WMU Chem Club* - no report
   2. *Kalamazoo College* - no report
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Science Café update* – no new information on Science Cafe
   2. *Bridging the Gap social event report* – DW indicated that the event went well. He will draft a report for national and for the section final report.
   3. *Earth Day report* – LH indicated that approximately 800 people attended the event at the Nature Center including ACS members Gellert Mezei and family and Andre Venter. Also Saugatuck High School participated in the CCED poster/poem contest. Their entry was not a national winner but they received certificates of participation
   4. *Chemistry exam results* – Winners have been determined and have been invited to the awards reception.
   5. *Chemistry awards reception* – The reception is scheduled for May 17 th in the lobby of the Chemistry Building at WMU. Refreshments at 6:00PM and award ceremony begins at 6:45. Awardees (exam winners and outstanding high school chemistry seniors) will be honored. One of the 50 year members will also attend.
5. **New Business**
   a. *ACS Investment Pool* - National ACS has communicated to local sections that we can no longer participate in the ACS investment pool. Alternative investment options were presented to us by ACS and included Vanguard Wellesley income fund, Vanguard Wellington fund, Fidelity Puritan or Balanced fund, or T Rowe Price Capital Appreciation or Balanced fund. A proposal to considered Vanguard Wellesley income fund and T Rowe Price Capital Appreciation was reviewed.
6. **Around the Table** - DW discussed the need for and description of a corresponding secretary for the local
section.

Next Meeting: June 3 2010, (tentative)
