---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
time: "18:30"
location: Sushiya
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Sue Stapleton (SS), John Miller (JM),
	    Doug Williams (DW), Tom Smith (TS), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. Sept minutes approved with no changes.
   2. *Action Item Table* - No updates.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Approved with no changes.
   2. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - JM to meet with CS and DW this month to change signatures for checking account. JM to set up transfer of funds to investment accounts.
3. **WMU and Kcollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - Chem. Club will have demonstrations and host talks by WMU professors to support chemistry month for the science scholars.
   2. *KCollege* - No meetings yet. Students escorting visitors from Baltimore science foundation for minority students.
4. **Old Business**
   1. International Year of Chemistry Nanogrant was submitted proposing four small scale science café talks.
   2. *Science Café* - 25 people attended Dr. Barcelona’s talk on movement of pollutants in ground water. Photos are on WMU Chem Dept Facebook page.
   3. *Fall speaker* - Reminder being sent Tues Oct 12. WMU Chem Club to host coffee hour prior to talk.
   4. *Spring Speaker update* - DW contacted Dr. Heindel and is working out schedule with other local sections that want to host this speaker.
   5. *National Chemistry Update* 2010-10-16 (12:00-16:00) - LH provided event information to Portage and Kalamazoo libraries. Monday Night Live event was successful. 18 activities are planned. 15 activity leaders have confirmed.
   6. *Elections* (DW) - DW contacting local companies for potential candidates for Chair Elect. CS will set up the election on Survey Monkey.
5. **New Business**
   1. Use of budget surplus was discussed. Some potential uses are travel grants to undergraduate and graduate students. Mini grants to professional members to pursue professional outreach or public outreach programs. Discussion will continue next month to further outline specific details and requirements.
   2. DW requested comments on maintaining a complete list of local employers of chemists on the KACS web page. All agreed this was a good idea. Doug will review the e-roster for additional employers of our members who might wish to be added to our list.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. JM will setup a meeting between the webmaster for the Kalamazoo Astronomical Society, LH and Steve Bertman to discuss improvements to the KACS website.
   2. DW visited local companies to provide information about the local section. One contact was made at MPI who recommended having an event where members display posters which they have already presented at professional meetings. She also suggested having a mixer event to which professionals who have started consulting businesses are invited to share their experiences
   3. LH noted that National ACS will be going through the required councilor recalculation process based on the number of paid members in each Local Section on 2010-12-31.

Meeting Adjourned 20:30

Next Meeting: 2010-11-04 18:30 at Sushiya
