---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:45"
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS), John Miller (JM),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Tom Smith (TS), Carl Stachew (CS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. Aug notes presented after the meeting via e-mail by DW.
   2. *Action Item Table* - Circulated after the meeting via e-mail by DW.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Approved with no changes.
3. **Councilor’s Report Fall ACS National Meeting** (Boston) - LH provided a comprehensive update. See separate attachment posted with these minutes.
4. **WMU and Kcollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU: Chem. Club* will have a booth at Bronco Bash on Sept. 10.
   2. *KCollege* - No update.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *Science Café*: Dr. Barcelona (WMU) will present his research on the motion of pollutants in ground water. Location: Martini’s on Sept 28 at 7PM.
   2. Funds have been transferred from National to KACS for investment. JM will arrange to invest the funds in the Vanguard Wellesley Income Fund and the T. Rowe Price Capital Appreciation Fund as approved by the EC in May 2010. The checking account requires signature changes. A motion was approved to have the Treasurer and Chair or the Chair Elect as co-signatories on the investment and checking accounts. For 2010, the co-signatories will be the Treasurer, John Miller, and the Chair Elect, Doug Williams.
   3. *Fall Speaker* - no update.
   4. *Spring Speaker update* - DW identified Dr. Ned Heindel as the speaker. Tentative date is Tuesday March 22, 2011.
   5. *National Chemistry Week* Oct. 16 (12-4PM) Update: LH has sent another request for volunteers. A very small group has volunteered to date. Jason Frink, former Chemistry teacher at PCHS and now assistant Principal, and Gus (James) Guzinski, formerly with KALSEC and now a part-time faculty member at WMU, will participate in an on-air interview with Keith Roe at the Public Media Network in downtown Kalamazoo on October 4, at 6 p.m. Subsequent airings of the show will be on Channel 20 on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, in both Portage and Kalamazoo (before Chemistry Day at the Museum on October 16).
   6. *Elections* (DW): JM will run for treasurer. A candidate needs to be identified for Chair Elect. CS will setup the election on Survey Monkey.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Job Description Communications Chair* - DW presented a draft description. A recommendation was made to change the last responsibility to initiate and recruit help to collect written summaries and photos of local section activities for posting to the website and for retention in the archives. The EC approved the position. DW will search for a volunteer.
   2. *International Year of Chemistry Nanogrant* ($250): EC agreed to pursue a
science café format for requesting a grant. JM offered to pursue a NSF grant
for public science presentations in cooperation with other local sections. The
NSF grant is substantially larger 50K.
7. **Around the Table**
   1. JM noted the Kalamazoo Astronomy Society has a good web site that could be used as a guide for updating the KACS website. The designer can update our site for $500 to $1000. JM will have Steve Bertman look at the site. See it online at http://www.kasonline.org/
   2. DW stated the section bylaws should be posted on the website.
   3. LH presented a request from National regarding feedback on the following question: What concerns do you have in the area of dues, dues modeling or member benefits? What solution(s) do you propose to address these concerns? Send your response to meminfo@acs.org. Deadline for input is Sept 10, 2010.