---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens
author: Carl Stachew
time: 18:40
roll-call: [Carolyn Pugh (CP), Don Schrieber (DS), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Carl Stachew (CS), John Miller (JM),
	   David Bolliet (DB), Kevin Douglass (KD)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. November minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. November report approved.
   2. 2012 budget was approved.
   3. Investment account update: $2000 moved from checking into the investment account. 
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. DB observed low activity with the website this month due to not having a newsletter or e-mail communications. Results continue to show that communications to the members drive visits to the website.
   2. Facebook page is being developed. LH expressed a concern about people posting any comment on the Facebook page. DB noted that postings can be tracked and people blocked from the website. The desire is to have a public website to promote communication among members. Access to the page is controlled by the Communications Chair.
4. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *KCollege* - no update.
   2. *WMU* - no update.
   3. *WMU Grad Student Association* - The group needs to have their first meeting.
5. **MS User Group Report** – no update
6. **Old Business**
   1. *ChemAble grants* - JM will send the form to Steve Bertman for inclusion on the website. After the holidays DB will communicate the existence of the grant program to members and direct them to the website for obtaining the form.
   2. *Annual report* - DW to update.
   3. *ACS leadership conference* - Elke Schoffers and Carolyn Pugh will attend in 2012.
   4. *Joint Regional Meeting 2015* - LH contacted the Western Michigan Section (through their councilor) and the Central Region Board to determine that there is agreement in fact that they are willing to co-host a Regional Meeting in 2015 with the Kalamazoo Section (Great Lakes Region). She is waiting on a response. Key positions to be filled early for a successful Joint Regional Meeting are General Co-chair and Program Co-chair.
7. **New Business**
   1. *KACS Operational Manual Review* - DW distributed a copy of the manual and noted the EC needs to review the manual in 2012.
   2. *Meet and Greet Event* (Feb 2012) - More details next meeting. The timing is early February 2012.
   3. *2012 National Chemistry Olympiad* - Local sections are invited to recruit students to participate in the test process for determining the representatives from the USA. A lead is needed to reach interested students and administer tests. Past history has demonstrated this requires much effort to reach few students.
   4. *Action Items Table* - 2012 budget is completed. Add Earth Day event for 2012.
   5. *Next Newsletter* - Timing will be determined. Current contents are the ChemAble grant program and the Meet and Greet Event. Send content to DB.
8. **Around the Table**
   1. CS presented Doug Williams with a past Chair pin and letter of appreciation from the National ACS for his service as the 2011 Chair. We thank Doug for his significant contributions to the section this year.
   2. LH provided the ACS Dept. of Public Relations with feedback on how the department assisted our local section with outreach communication for National Chemistry Week and the Speaker Tour events. The Dept. requested our feedback to justify its mission.
   3. DW noted the Senior Chemists Committee that is forming desires to start a program for supporting undergraduate and graduate students with lab techniques, writing and career development. CS noted the Innovation Grant program could be a source of funds for the student development program.

Meeting Adjourned 20:07

The next meeting will be Jan. 4th at 6:30PM at a location to be determined.
