---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
author: Lydia Hines and Doug Williams
time: 18:35
location: Hunan Gardens
roll-call: [David Bolliet (DB), Kevin Douglass (KD), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   John Miller (JM), Elke Schoffers (ES), Don Schreiber (DS),
	   Sue Stapleton (SS), John Wendt (JW), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. September minutes were approved with no new changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. The October report was approved. We approved JM’s recommendation to move our account to PNC at the beginning of 2012.
3. **Communications Chair** – Web site report
a. DB provided a written summary of Web site traffic. The newsletter notices are responsible for about 60% of the Web site visits. DB continues to work on a Facebook page for our Local Section as a new means of pushing our news to members and interested community members. There will be more to come later on this.
4. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *KCollege* – no report.
   2. *WMU undergraduate Chem Club* has held a lab goggles sale and a bake sale. DW will add a contact person from their group to our EC meeting group list. (DS to provide name)
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* - KD reported that the CGSA has a new president but the Executive Committee has still not met. On Oct. 23 they are planning a memorial event for deceased recently-graduated member, Brian Zeider.
5. **MS User Group Report**
   1. No report.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *Elections* - DW and ES are working on final prospects for a chair-elect nomination. By next week, the election will go forward with or without a candidate. Confirmed candidates are Carolyn Pugh for Secretary (two year term) and Lydia Hines for reelection as Councilor (three year term).
   2. *Fall speaker summary* - This was a successful event. DW summarized evaluations, which were generally very positive except for the poor accommodation for some senior members who had trouble hearing the speakers. Over 60 people attended. Speaker Joe Vinson will be reimbursed promptly by KACS for this travel expenses and each of the other three cooperating Sections will reimburse KACS for its respective share. DW is preparing the tour expense voucher for ACS to authorizereimbursement of the $88.18 remaining in our $400 annual allotment from National for tour speaker expenses. A total of $63 in nonmember/nonstudent participation fees was collected at the event. The final cost of the event to KACS after collection of proceeds and reimbursement is $479.14, well within the $650 budget allotment for this event.
   3. *National Chemistry Week update* - The fingerprint requirement for museum volunteers was dropped shortly after it was imposed, due to an apparent equipment malfunction. At this time the “approved” volunteers include 20 high school students, 8 students from NOBCChE, 3 from the Chem Grad Student Association, and 10 KACS members. The Museum has another 18 students who need “Community Service Hours” scheduled, for a total of 51 volunteers who will be set up at 19 stations. The call for participation in the Illustrated Poem Contest yielded one poster. E-mails were sent out to KVCC, WMU Chem Club, CGSA and K College to request that they consider doing a Hygiene Product Collection during NCW Oct 16-22 (in accordance with this year’s NCW theme of Health) for distribution to local Homeless Shelters/Food Pantries; to date KVCC has responded affirmatively.
   4. *Poster session* - The event, called “Sustainable Science – Recycle a Poster,” has been confirmed for 5-9 pm, Tue, Nov. 1 at Bell’s Eccentric Cafe. The announcement flyer will clarify that all attendees must be at least 21 years old and also a member of ACS or a poster co-author. Pfizer employees will also be welcome, regardless of ACS membership status. JW has secured easels for posters from Pfizer and is working on obtaining projection and sound equipment to help defray costs of these items from Bell’s. DW and JW will continue to refine the program for the event and prepare a more detailed announcement for the next newsletter. DW passed a menu around the table for a vote on appetizer choices.
   5. *Development (“ChemAble”) Grants Proposal* - This proposal, prepared for final approval, was tabled for discussion at our Nov. meeting.
7. **New Business**
   1. ES proposed that we consider co-hosting and/or promoting Daniel Rabinovich to deliver his presentation, “The World of Chemistry on Stamps,” that was cancelled early this year due to inclement weather. All present agreed to promote.
   2. *Next newsletter* - The next newsletter delivery is targeted for Oct 26. DW will send assignments and a request that any contributions of content be submitted to DB by 10/23.
   3. *Annual Report 2010 feedback* - SS summarized review of our 2010 Annual Report as strong. We were praised for our active program, good member participation and high outreach activity level for a section of our size. There were no major concerns raised in the review.
8. **Around the Table**
   1. LH mentioned a tribute (Kalamazoo Gazette October 12, 2011) to recently deceased ACS member and first KACS Section Chair George Laure.
   2. LH will be attending the Great Lakes Region Board Meeting on October 22 at the Great Lakes-Midwest Joint Regional Meeting in St. Louis; she will emphasize our Section’s strong preference for Regional Meetings to be held every other year instead of annually. The current tentativeRegional Meeting schedule lists our Section as a possible host in 2016.
   3. JM requested Budget proposals from the responsible party of each activity to be sent to him prior to the November EC meeting (Nov. 9).

Meeting Adjourned 8:15 PM

The next meeting will be Nov 9th at 6:30PM at Hunan Gardens (West Main location).
