---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
author: Doug Williams
time: 18:45
location: Sushiya
roll-call: [Sue Stapleton (SS), Lydia Hines (LH), Don Schreiber (DS),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Kim Greve (KG), Mike Kiella (MK)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. December minutes were approved with no changes.
   2. *Action Item Table* - The item for 2010 budget resolution was removed. The 2011 annual councilor biography form is completed. Doug will extend the list for Apr-Jun for review at the next meeting.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Dec. Treasurer’s Report was approved with no changes.
   2. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - Pending investment of funds.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - First meeting was scheduled for Jan 11. No report.
   2. *KCollege* - Lydia reported that though Jeff Bartz is the faculty advisor to the student chapter, Tom Smith will continue to represent the department.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Operations Manual* - The latest revision of the manual was approved as drafted and will be posted on our web site. The version will include job descriptions for the National Chemistry Week and Project SEED coordinators.
   2. *Spring Speaker* (2011-03-22) - No changes. The topic survey is in progress. Doug will establish venue and proposed schedule before the next meeting.
   3. *January Mixer* (2011-01-20) - We are on schedule. Four panelists have been identified to speak. WMU Catering is scheduled to serve. Doug will obtain alcohol. An e-mail reminder will go out early next week.
   4. *Use of surplus funds* - development grant proposal. No report. Hold for Feb.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Annual report* - Sue, Lydia and Doug have accessed the new annual report system (called FORMS). Sue is working on the report.
   2. *Project SEED grant application* - Applications are due Jan 28. Don will take care of this.
   3. *Innovative Planning Grant* - Applications are due Jan 31. We do not have a proposal for this round but will work ahead to submit in June. Each section can be awarded one IPG per year.
   4. *Girl Scout chemistry badge* - Kim has submitted the request for ACS insurance. She has received registration for only 8 girls and 2 volunteers. This event might not be done again this year. It is designed for 80-120 girls and requires 15-20 volunteers. We would run it with as few as 40 girls. The local council lists our activity as one of many in their event booklet. Mike Kiella offered to contact the Girl Scout office with Kim’s guidance to ask for a more assertive marketing approach. Kim suggested that we might prefer tooffer this activity in conjunction with Chemistry Day rather than as a separate event.
   5. *Mass Spec User Group* - No report.
   6. *Newsletter and upcoming events* - The recent newsletter has generated some encouraging feedback. With our upcoming events in Feb and Mar, the committee felt that it would be helpful to have another newsletter timed for early February. Doug will initiate this with David. David will announce the name of the Sudoku puzzle winner in the next issue.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. Doug announced that Dr. Steve Hamilton of Kellogg Biological Station has agreed to be our Science Café speaker on Tue, Feb 22.
   2. Don Schreiber reported that WMU has engaged a speaker to come on Feb 21 on the topic of stamp collecting and chemistry history. We agreed that we would help advertise and possibly cosponsor this talk once we have more details.
   3. Executive Committee meeting time. Several committee members asked for a consistent meeting time and day for each month. Doug will try again in Feb to find a time to accommodate all of the voting officers. Mike is unavailable on Tue and Thu. Sue cannot attend on the first Wed of each month.

Meeting Adjourned 8:02 PM
