---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
location: Sushiya
time: "18:45"
roll-call: [Sue Stapleton (SS), Lydia Hines (LH), Doug Williams (DW),
	   John Miller (JM), Carl Stachew (CS), Tom Smith (TS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. January minutes were approved with no changes.
   2. *Action Item Table* - The Project Seed application was submitted. There will be one returning student and one new student. Notices have been sent to the local high schools for the High School Science Symposium. Girl Scout Merit Badge Day has been cancelled due to lack of interest.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Jan. Treasurer’s Report was approved with no changes.
   2. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - Pending investment of funds.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - No report.
   2. *KCollege* - Several members of the chemistry club are mentoring and tutoring students at the Woodward school. DW suggested finding ways for the local ACS to help or reward the students for their efforts.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *January Mixer* (2011-01-20) - The event attracted 25 members. The four panelists provided interesting discussion of their efforts in the consultant business.
   2. *Annual report* - Completion is pending JM to add costs and source of funding for each local ACS event. CS recommended adding the Pfizer tour for the WMU freshman chemistry seminar students as a local ACS event.
   3. *Spring Speaker* (2011-03-22) - Dr. Heindel will arrive early afternoon. An afternoon talk is pending a response from Pfizer. A dinner is planned followed by the evening talk at 6:30 PM at KAMSC titled "Tinctures, Tonics, and Patent Medicines: A History of Commercialized Quackery"
   4. *Use of surplus funds* – JM provided an excellent development grant proposal. Need to add requirement for references and checking references as part of the approval process. The criterion for reviewing proposals needs development. Contact John with your suggestions.
   5. *Section Teaching Award Update* - Notices are sent to the local principals. The last several years have been difficult to obtain responses. The Education Committee may consider having this award every other year.
5. **New Business**
   1. SPARKLE workshop participant has not been identified. The workshop focuses on public relations training and developing a public relations plan.
   2. *Mass Spec User Group* - No report.
   3. *Planning for Apr-Jun2011* - Earth Day event is April 16 th from 10:00 to 16:00 at the Nature Center. Theme is Energy. Contact Lydia if you are interested in volunteering.
   4. *Feb Newsletter* - Add Project Seed and the High School Science Symposium as upcoming events/programs.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. Lydia noted the Illustrated Poem Contest for students K-12 on the Energy Theme is due to her by March 31; the poem is limited to 40 words.
   2. Lydia contacted the Greek Association of Chemists to establish a dialogue as part of the International Year of Chemistry.

Meeting Adjourned 20:15
