---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
time: 18:35
location: McGinnis Landing
roll-call: [Don Schrieber (DS), Lydia Hines (LH), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Carl Stachew (CS), Andre Venter (AV), John Wendt (JW),
	   Sue Stapleton (SS), Elke Schoffers (ES), John Miller (JM),
	   Kevin Douglass (KD), Kim Greve (KG)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. June minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. August report approved. JM transferring funds over time to the investment account to take advantage of dollar cost averaging.
3. **Communications Chair** – Web site report
   1. Traffic increased during the notifications for the Jeopardy event and the Great Lakes Regional meeting notice. The report demonstrates the e-mail notifications are driving members to the website for information.
4. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* and *KCollege* - no updates
   2. *WMU Grad Student Association* - The group welcomed Kevin Douglass to the KACS meetings. Kevin noted the barbeque event on June 17th was well attended. A goal is to have future events to introduce grad student to local companies.
5. **MS User Group Report**
   1. Discussion about including the September poster session with the Pfizer sponsored event continued. AV, DW and JW will work together to find a date and location for a fall poster session. The event is tentatively set for November.
6. **Old Business**
   1. LH presented a detailed history of the purpose for having regional sections. See the associated file on the website. A question arose regarding the frequency of regional meetings. The Executive Committee recommended the region sponsor biennial meetings in the future. LH will provide our recommendation to the Great Lakes Region.
   2. DW is working on having Convections with Convictions provide chocolate for the fall speaker event. The budget contains $300 for chocolate. A recommendation was made to charge a nominal fee ($2) for the event to obtain an accurate headcount and to offset costs for the event.
   3. *Program Funds from Pfizer* - The event was covered under the Mass Spec Users Group Report.
   4. *ChemAble Grant Proposal* - No updates. There was much discussion about the purpose and size of the award along with the content of the application. JM will work on developing a draft form with standard questions for applicants.
7. **New Business**
   1. *2011 Annual Report* - Doug has started adding activity reports to the FORMS website but found the website inconsistent for saving inputs. He has entered our 2011 events through February.
   2. *Action Items Table* - Chemistry Day is set for Oct 15 from 12 to 4PM. This year’s theme is Our Health Our Future. The Project Seed reception will be combined with the WMU-HHMI program on August 10, 9-11 a.m.
   3. *Girl Scouts Activity* - KG has not heard from the coordinator. For now this event will be left pending a request from the Girl Scouts.
   4. *August Newsletter* - DW compiled a list of content and will send out a request for content to everyone. The list included the fall speaker event, Chemistry Day, the Teacher Award noted in the C&E News, the WMU barbeque event Great Lake Regional Meeting notice, a call for election candidates and a notification about the November poster session.
8. **Around the Table**
   1. AV requested a link to the WMU ChemClub and Grad Student Association on the website.
   2. LH noted we have an IYC contact from Cyprus. His name is Hercules Panayotides.
   3. LH requested information regarding lab safety. The topic is on the Councilor’s meeting agenda at the next ACS National Meeting.

Meeting Adjourned 8:05 PM

The next meeting will be Sep 14th at 6:30PM at Hunan Gardens (West Main location).
