---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
time: "18:35"
location: Hunan Gardens
roll-call: [Don Schrieber (DS), Lydia Hines (LH), Doug Williams (DW),
	   John Miller (JM), Carl Stachew (CS), Andre Venter (AV),
	   Tom Smith (TS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. March minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. March report was approved with no changes.
   2. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - JM waiting to get access pin from Vanguard in order to wire funds into the account.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. WMU assisted with the regional Science Olympiad and conducted demos at the Plainwell Science Night.
   2. KCollege is preparing for next month’s annual Forensics Day.
4. **Old Business**
   1. *Spring Speaker* (3/22/11) - Dr. Heindel toured Kalexsyn and Kalsec in the afternoon. The talk was informative and attended by 40 KAMSC students and 10 members. Our section covered the costs for the entire trip and will be reimbursed by the other local sections.
   2. Earth Day is this Saturday April 16th from 10:00 to 16:00. LH will have a table with ACS information along with a demonstration. One poem entry was submitted from our section.
   3. *Spring Science Symposium* - Notices were sent and DS is waiting on responses.
   4. Program funds from Pfizer will be used for a fall poster session.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Innovative Planning Grant* - Annette Hoppenworth suggested producing science demonstration videos that could be used for the museum to educate the community. Additional thought is required to further develop this idea before recommending submitting it. Suggestions on where to produce the video ranged from local high schools, WMU or Pfizer.
   2. *Action Item table* - Next Science Café is April 28 on Wind and Solar Energy at KVCC from 6 to 8 PM Room 4240. June Science Café is tentative for Nuclear energy. Fall speaker proposal is Dr. Joe Vinson “The Chemistry of Chocolate.”
   3. *Great Lakes Regional Meeting Committee* - LH noted this group has not been organized and it is very difficult to reach the local sections within the group. The EC questioned the benefits of remaining in this region. LH, as our Section representative to the Board of Directors, will monitor the activities of this Board, now that the Great Lakes Region has become an incorporated body. She will investigate what action may be necessary if our Section chooses toleave the Great Lakes Region and align itself with the Central Region, which is the Region to which all Michigan Lower Peninsula Sections belong.
   4. Next newsletter is targeted for early May. Tentative content are announcements for the June Science Café and the Chemistry Awards ceremony.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. LH presented her Councilor’s report from the national meeting in Anaheim. A copy of the report is available on the website.
   2. High school teacher nominations are Joe Thorstenson (KAMSC) and Brad Portis (Gull Lake).

Meeting Adjourned 8:05 PM

The next meeting will be May 4 th at 6:30PM at Hunan Gardens (West Main location).
