---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
location: Hunan Gardens
time: 18:35
roll-call: [Don Schrieber (DS), Lydia Hines (LH), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Carl Stachew (CS), Andre Venter (AV), John Wendt (JW),
	   Sue Stapleton (SS), Elke Schoffers (ES), John Miller (JM),
	   Kim Greve (KG), David Bolliet (DB), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Phil Macklin (PM), Scott Lambert (SL)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. October minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. October report approved.
   2. JM distributed the draft 2012 budget. Everyone asked to review and provide comments to JM or at the December meeting. CS prompted discussion of our reserve funds and encouraged us to consider additional ways to use them. JM was asked to check on ACS recommendation for the size of reserve funds that we should keep on hand.
3. **Communications Chair** – Web site report
   1. The newsletter and event announcements continue to drive traffic to the site. 
This month’s report showed the highest level of direct traffic to date at 72% of 
the website hits.
   2. Facebook page is being developed.
   3. The ACS Office of Public Affairs requested information from the local sections on how this office has helped promote community outreach. Discussion around the benefits of this office versus directing efforts towards other activities occurred with no majority conclusion. DB noted he had used some of the news of interest from the division in the newsletter.
4. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. KCollege hosted a Mole Day event on campus. The group is planning a trip to a local industrial site. Outreach activities continue to be coordinated with the Sisters of Science program.
   2. WMU focusing on fundraising to purchase supplies for outreach and to plan an industry trip. PM and SL attended as representatives of the WMU Chemistry Club.
   3. WMU Grad Student Association: The poster session received positive feedback from the graduate students.
5. **MS User Group Report**
   1. Leco and Waters Corp. have expressed interest in helping to sponsor an activity.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *Election results* - Carolyn Pugh was elected as the new Secretary. Lydia Hines was reelected as Councilor. Congratulations to both Carolyn and Lydia. A total of 40 members voted with the following results. Carolyn Pugh 40 votes. Lydia Hines 39 votes with one member skipping the vote for Councilor.
   2. Chemistry Day hosted 650 kids and 1600 hygiene products were collected at the event and donated to the Kalamazoo Gospel Mission.
   3. *Poster Session* - The event contained 47 posters with 85 members attending. The majority of the feedback was positive. JW may receive another Pfizer Animal Health grant in 2012 for a section activity.
   4. The request form for the ChemAble Grants was approved. Plans are to announce the grants in the Dec newsletter.
   5. Annual Report: DW will be working on entry of activity records in December.
7. **New Business**
   1. *Great Lakes Regional Meeting* - The board met and decided to host a meeting every two years on odd numbered years. The KACS was asked by steering committee to co-host a joint regional meeting in Grand Rapids with the West Michigan Section in 2015. The Executive Committee agreed to the request.
   2. The East Central Illinois section chair requested high school test exam questions to support their effort to start a competitive exam program. The executive committee recommended the section coordinate with local high schools to determine the subjects being taught and use readily available resources for test questions.
   3. The ACS Leadership Conference is open to new Executive Committee members. The conference date is Jan. 20-22, 2012. ES is planning to attend. Because we did not send anyone in 2011, we agreed that we would consider sending a second officer. DW will invite Carolyn Pugh to consider attending.
   4. Remaining action items consist of administrative duties for the rest of 2012. (officer list and the Annual Report). We decided to remove Girl Scouts Merit Badge from the action items list until the local district expresses greater interest in this activity.
   5. *December Newsletter* - ChemAble Grants, Election Results, A success story, Student chemistry club updates. Articles should be submitted to DB by Dec 3 for targeted issue date of Dec 12.
8. **Around the Table**
   1. ES asked everyone to think about a meet and greet event for early 2012 for members to meet the Executive Committee.

Meeting Adjourned 8:10 PM

The next meeting will be Dec. 14th at 6:30PM at Hunan Gardens (West Main location).
