---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
author: Doug Williams
time: "18:35"
location: Hunan Gardens
roll-call: [Don Schreiber (DS), Lydia Hines (LH), Andre Venter (AV),
	   John Wendt (JW), Elke Schoffers (ES), John Miller (JM),
	   Kevin Douglass (KD), Tom Smith (TS), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Carolyn Pugh (CP)]
---

Pennies for Pur Water
===
LH passed the jar around the table for donations for Pennies for PUR™ Water.

Reflections on Dean Cooke
===
Former Local Section Councilor and Chair Dean Cooke passed away on
August 10. A brief notice has been posted on the WMU news Web site but
we have been unable to locate an official obituary from his family or
funeral home.

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. August minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. The September report was approved. JM will correct his template to show that our checking account is with Bank of America (not LaSalle). We have approximately $13,000 yet to transfer from our checking account to our investment funds.
3. **Communications Chair** – Web site report
   1. David Bolliet (in absentia) provided a Web site traffic update. Email notifications once again prompted most of the traffic. DW reported that David has begun to repare a Facebook page for our Local Section. Our newsletters were praised for their form and easy, direct links.
4. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. KCollege students will have their first meeting on Friday this week.
   2. WMU undergraduate Chem Club has met once and is beginning to prepare for school visits. They had a recruiting table at Bronco Bash and have elected new officers for the year (Scotty Lambert – President, Emily Cobb – Vice President, Phillup Macklin – Secretary, Lindsey Simon – Treasurer, Donnapha Kuppatikasem – Event Coordinator).
   3. *WMU Grad Student Association* - Kevin Douglass reported seven new graduate students have joined the department but the CGSA has not met. They will review our invitation to share a banking account with us and will survey their members to see how many belong to ACS.
5. **MS User Group Report**
   1. No report.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *Nominations* - Carolyn Pugh, who joined us for the meeting, has agreed to run for Secretary (two year term). Lydia will run for reelection as Councilor (three year term). ES and DW are still seeking nominations for Chair Elect. They hope to have a full ballot ready for member elections by mid-October.
   2. Fall speaker plans are progressing. Member and selected school notices were distributed in the last newsletter and by email. DW reported preregistration of 64 people (about 30 ACS members). DW asked others to let him know if they would like to spend time with speaker Joe Vinson during his visit to Kalamazoo. AV said he would like to meet with him and Vinson expressed interest in visiting Kalsec.
   3. National Chemistry Week progress update. LH has distributed information to schools pertaining to the ACS NCW poster competition. Entries are due by Oct 14. She has also informed our local college colleagues of ACS encouragement to collect personal hygiene supplies for the needy during NCW. She has received offers from 6 people to deliver activities during Chemistry Day and from 5 others to assist.
   4. *Poster session* (Pfizer sponsored) - We decided to hold this event at Bell’s Eccentric Café on Tuesday, Nov 1. Funds provided by Pfizer should be adequate to cover rental costs, appetizers and open bar for up to 75 people. DW will make the facility reservation. JW and AV will work out name of event and program details. (Suggested title: "Sustainable Science - Recycle a Poster") JW will look into obtaining easels. Bob Gadwood (Kalexsyn) has been asked to give a keynote address. Flyer and email will be distributed with our next newsletter.
   5. *ChemAble Grant Proposal* - JM presented a proposal description, application and scoring rubric for comment. It will be presented for EC approval at our next meeting.
7. **New Business**
   1. Councilor Report from National Meeting. See report from LH.
   2. *ACS Leadership Conference* (Jan 20-22, 2012) - ES is interested in attending this event for us. We will also consider sending our new Chair Elect after this person is identified and elected.
   3. *Next newsletter* - We want to have our next newsletter out by the end of September. DW will send out a request for content to everyone.
8. **Around the Table**
   1. DS reported that, after discussion with some high school teachers, he plans to move the High School Science Symposium to a December or January date.
   2. DS offered to supply names and e-addresses for middle-school teachers (Lydia to remind him by e-mail)

Meeting Adjourned 8:15 PM

The next meeting will be Oct 12th at 6:30PM at Hunan Gardens (West Main location).
