---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
author: Carl Stachew
location: Hunan Gardens
time: 18:35
roll-call: [Don Schrieber (DS), Lydia Hines (LH), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Carl Stachew (CS), Andre Venter (AV), David Bolliet (DB)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. May minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Reimbursements for Councilor travel received.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - no update from ChemClub
   2. *WMU Chemistry Graduate Student Association* - interested in having an event with the KACS. See New Business for the event. The Executive Committee recommended a member of the association attend the KACS meetings.
   3. *KCollege* - no update.
4. **MS User Group Report**
   1. An outdoor poster session for one day during the time period of Sept. 6 th through Sept. 9th is being considered. The activity may be combined with the Pfizer co-sponsored poster session.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *HOME* - Eleven members attended the movie on Friday May 13 th at K-College. The Saturday May 14th showing at WMU did not draw any members likely due to the weekend date.
   2. The Spring Awards Reception summary is posted on the website. Congratulations to John Miller for receiving the Section Member Award.
   3. *Program Funds from Pfizer* - The event requires planning.
   4. *Innovative Planning Grant* - No additional projects are being pursued at this time.
   5. *Website traffic* - DB presented a nice summary of the website activity. The newsletter is driving activity on the website. 20% to 25% of the membership accessed the website during the week of the newsletter.
5. **New Business**
   1. *Great Lakes Regional Meeting Steering Committee* - A teleconference scheduled for June 9th will cover what the region should be doing. LH noted only half of the sections have responded to attend the teleconference. LH is checking with National ACS if a local section can opt out of belonging to a region and can a local section join another region.
   2. Fall Tour speaker is Dr. Joe Vinson “The Chemistry of Chocolate.” DW is coordinating travel plans and schedule with other local sections. DW will contact local chocolatiers about offering chocolate at the event.
   3. *Upcoming events* - June 17th barbeque with WMU grad students. Combine this event with hosting the Kalamazoo County Haz-Mat team. The budget has $125 from the Bridging the Gap grant to use towards the event. E-mail notification of the event will be sent.
   4. The Project SEED program has enrolled one student this year. Don has affiliated our student with the REU program participants at WMU for this summer.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. LH presented a new letterhead for the section. The EC approved the letterhead.
   2. LH obtained pins to present to past chairs of the KACS.
   3. The Executive committee recommends that LH send the picture of the teacher and former student now teacher to the ACS for the C&E News.
   4. LH noted the Chemical Education Conference is set for July 24-28 th at WMU.

Meeting Adjourned 20:05

The next meeting will be Aug 4t h at 6:30PM at Hunan Gardens (West Main location) or McGinnis Landing (to be confirmed).
