---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
time: "18:35"
location: Hunan Gardens
author: Lydia Hines with additions by Doug Williams
roll-call: [Doug Williams (DW), John Miller(JM), Tom Smith(TS),
	   David Bolliet(DB), Don Schreiber(DS), Lydia Hines(LH),
	   Susan Stapleton(SS)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** - April meeting Minutes were approved as presented
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. April Treasurer’s Report was approved as presented.
   2. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - JM is awaiting clearance of bank routing number from Vanguard before funds transfer is completed.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - No update. Club is inactive until the fall.
   2. *KCollege* - The K College students are getting ready for Forensics Day for KPS Elementary School students on 2011-05-26 in the Dow Science Bldg.
4. **Mass Spec Users Group** - Andre Venter indicated by way of a report that there would be no more meetings of the Mass Spec Group until July.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *April events* - LH gave a brief report on Earth Day activities at the Kalamazoo Nature Center; a written report can be found on the KACS website.  DW gave a report on the Science Café on Solar and Wind Energy at KVCC; again, a written report can be found on the KACS website.
   2. *Spring Science Symposium* - DS reported that there were 32 students present at the Spring Science Symposium on 2011-05-03 at WMU. There were 6 talks and 1 tour; the students and teachers were appreciative.  The possibility of having this activity either the week before or the week after Christmas break will be explored.
   3. *Program funds from Pfizer* - No update on programming plans.  DW will follow up.
   4. *Innovative Planning Grant* - Concerning the possible use for IPG funds for a video demo of chemistry activities (suggestion from Annette Hoppenworth), DS and JM noted that a 2-3 min video clip made by WMU personnel would likely cost $1000.   Carl Stachew sent some suggestions for use of such funds: Summer Science conference at WMU for Middle School Students?  Adult hands-on/teaching activities at WMU?  Cooperation with KRESA to stock kits and train teachers?  Discussion will continue.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Action items table and upcoming events*
      1. DB reported that the movie “Home” will be shown on Friday 2011-05-13 at Kalamazoo College Dow Science Center (Room 226) at 19:00, and on Saturday 2011-05-14 at 20:00 in Wood Hall Rm 1001 at WMU. Publicity will be through the KACS Newsletter, and through the Home Movie Facebook page; their request to us was that the movie be open to the public and that no admission fee be charged. That would pose no problem - the only thing we might do is to suggest a free-will donation to the PUR water program which ACS is promoting during International Year of Chemistry to provide potable water in areas of the world which do not have it.
      2. Plans are in place for our Awards reception on 2011-05-23. We had three applications for our outstanding high school teacher award.
      3. The Project SEED reception will be close to 2011-08-10.
      4. There was a suggestion that we have an undergraduate mixer as our Fall meeting with recommendation that we have a speaker (Vinson) on  the health effects of chocolate along with a chocolate tasting opportunity. DS will float that idea by Mrs. Heilmann (wife of the former owner of the Heilmann chocolate shop).
   2. May Newsletter content should be to DB by no later than Friday 2011-05-05.
7. **Around the Table**
   1. LH requested a paper copy of our 2010 Annual Report. Doug offered to print it.
   2. LH sent a letter of invitation to our Awards gathering to all seven of our Section’s 50-and 60-year members; to this point Hessler has responded affirmatively.
   3. LH requested the names of Chairs of the Local Section from 1995 - 2006, along with the years during which they served; DS will provide from prior years’ Awards Programs.
   4. A card was signed to send to Dean Cooke, a former councilor.
   5. LH suggested that we continue to participate with the Great Lakes Region either in person or by teleconference until we know what is going on with its organization.
   6. DW will increase his efforts at encouraging broader participation in the Section’s governance.  The next election will be for a Chair-Elect (one-year term), a secretary (two-year term), and councilor (three-year term).

Meeting Adjourned 19:50.

Next EC meeting at Hunan Gardens (West Main) at 18:30 on Wednesday 2011-06-01.
