---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens
author: Carl Stachew
time: "18:45"
roll-call: [Sue Stapleton (SS), Lydia Hines (LH), Doug Williams (DW),
	   John Miller (JM), Carl Stachew (CS), Andre Ventre (AV),
	   John Wendt (JW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. February minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Feb. report was approved with revision to add $250 Science Café grant to the checking balance. March report approved.
   2. *Investment/Checking Funds update* - Pending completion of administrative work by Vanguard.
3. **WMU and KCollege Student Members**
   1. *WMU* - No report.
   2. *KCollege* - No report
4. **Old Business**
   1. *SPARKLE workshop* - No representative identified. National ACS wants someone who will commit to undertaking a Public Relations Chair in the local section.
   2. *Science Café* - See summary in the March newsletter.
   3. MS user group has 22 attendees from industry, academia and retirees. Next event is being held during the WMU Chemistry Research Day on April 15th. Planning a recycled poster session after the ASMS meeting.
   4. *Spring Science Symposium* - Cancelled due to lack of interest. Possibility of rescheduling the event in May.
   5. *Spring Speaker* (2011-03-22) - Dr. Heindel will arrive early afternoon. First stop is at Kalexsyn for 1.5 hours followed by some break time before the dinner at 17:--. Anyone interested in attending the dinner contact Doug Williams. The talk starts at 6:30 PM at KAMSC titled "Tinctures, Tonics, and Patent Medicines: A History of Commercialized Quackery"
5. **New Business**
   1. The section welcomed Dr. John Wendt from Pfizer Vet Med R&D. John explained Pfizer is offering 2K towards joint activities with KACS. Potential events are a recycled poster session and a fall speaker. DW will work with John on the details for the events.
   2. *Action Item table* - Earth Day event needs volunteers to assist LH. The event is at the Kalamazoo Nature Center on April 16 th . The next Science Café will be held in April at KVCC focusing on alternative energy. The March newsletter will have contain an announcement for Teacher’s Awards.
6. **Around the Table**
   1. CS noted that Pfizer Science Outreach is working with a teacher’s group through K-RESA and the Kalamazoo Valley Museum to bring hands on science to K-12. This group may be a future source for cooperation withKACS through an innovation grant. The group is determining projects for grant funding.
   2. AV noted the Detroit Museum is hosting a Fakes and Forgeries exhibit. He would like to get a carpool together for members interested in attending.
   3. SS noted the High School Science Olympiad will be held March 19 at WMU. Volunteers are needed.
   4. LH noted the 2010 annual report was submitted to National ACS.

Meeting Adjourned 8:15 PM

The next meeting will be April 13 th at 6:30PM at Hunan Gardens (West Main location).
