---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens
time: 18:40
roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Carolyn Pugh (CP), Elke Schoffers (ES),
	   Don Schrieber (DS),  Tom Smith (TS), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. December minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. John Miller was not able to attend but emailed that cash equivalents and the check for the Vinson talk expenses from St. Joe ACS need to be deposited. The internal reserve increased by approximately $1000 due to the actual 2011 budget and what is required to carry forward for the 2012 budget. 
   2. Treasurer’s report was approved.
   3.  Investment Fund/Checking Account update
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. DW presented the website report prepared by David Bolliet (DB). Last year’s  website activity from January to November showed spikes corresponding to emails  or newsletters to members that came from KACS. The majority of website traffic was due to viewing newsletters. The report indicated there were 516 unique visitors to the website out of a total of 1081 visits. 
   2. *Facebook page update* – no report.
4.  **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Chapters**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – TS reported that the student organization is discussing having a chemistry spelling bee type competition. This is still in the planning phases and TS will email details as soon as he has more information.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – no report.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – Kevin Douglass (KD) was not able to attend. He communicated in an email that Alia (CGSA president) was contacted to schedule a meeting and discuss events in 2012.
5. **MS User Group Report**
   1. Andre Venter (AV) was not able to attend the meeting. He communicated in an  email the MS User Group is planning an early evening lecture in mid to late February sponsored by the Waters Corp. Details will be in the next newsletter.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *ChemAble grants program* – The form was approved and waiting to put the information in the next newsletter.
   2. *Annual Report 2011 and other end of year paperwork* – CS submitted the annual committee officer and chair forms to the ACS. Project SEED application will be submitted by DS prior to January 30th. DW is completing the annual report for  2011 and JM will submit the financial information from last year for the report.
   3. ACS Leadership Conference, Ft. Worth, TX – Jan 20-22nd ; ES and CP will be attending.
   4. *KACS Operations Manual review* – DW distributed the manual for review by the committee last month. LH included descriptions of activities that take place during  chemistry week. Committee members are encouraged to review this document regarding the positions for they have been elected to. ES approved the manual.
7. **New Business**
   1. *Meet and Greet Event (Feb 2012)* - ES is organizing a “Meet and Greet” wine and cheese event for Tuesday, February 7th at WMU. This would provide an opportunity for chemistry students at both WMU and K College to interact with local chemists regarding career opportunities. ES and DW will organize speakers for a panel type discussion. This event would also serve to educate students on the history of KACS, reflect on previous years of KACS, introduce the executive committee, highlight events for the upcoming year and communicate to the students the services and opportunities that KACS can offer. ES is asking committee members to think of good “catchy” title for the event.
   2. *Remaining Actions Items and Updates on Jan-Mar 2012 events* – A Science Café and MS User Group events will be discussed at the next meeting. The Newsletter will be distributed prior to the February Meet and Greet event.
   3. *Next Newsletter*, timing and content – The next newsletter will be distributed  before the Meet and Greet event on Feb 7th. Content will include information on ChemAble grants program from JM; DW will contact retired chemists regarding the Senior Chemists Committee and ES and CP will provide a brief summary of the Leadership Conference
   4. *Promoting Chemistry Events* – ES discussed “cross-advertising” upcoming seminar speakers at both WMU and K College in the newsletter. The newsletter would list a few of the speakers and direction would be given to refer to the website for further details on future speakers.
8. **Final Comments and Suggestions** – ES thanked everyone for attending the meeting. She thanked DW for his service as past chair. LH communicated the cost of ACS membership dues compared to other professional organizations. ACS was about the median range.
9. **Date for next meeting** -  Next executive committee meeting will take place on at 6:30 pm on Wednesday, February 1st at Hunan Gardens