---
author: Doug Williams
location: Hunan Gardens
time: 18:35
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Josh Abbott (JA), Clara Adams (CA), John Engelmann,
	   Lydia Hines (LH), Alia Hinz (AH), John Miller (JM),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Doug Williams (DW), Maren Zanotti (MZ)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   October minutes were approved.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – JM reported receipt of an unexpected check from ACS for 
$1000. Elke noted that the AAAS donation for the Elements of Dance event will be 
$500. ACS has reimbursed our section for last year’s fall speaker expenses ($88.12).
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* – No update.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Web Site Report* – Traffic on the Web site is showing new spikes attributed to posting 
of events on our Facebook page. Photos from Chemistry Day on Facebook generated 
33 “Like” responses.
   2. *Facebook Page Update* – LH suggested that we should make photos available for 
those who do not use Facebook.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student**
Organizations
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – JA reported that the chemistry club had a social event for 
Halloween. Many of their members will be attending a research poster session at the 
Van Andel Institute on Nov 17 (Grand Rapids, MI).
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – MZ reported that the Chem Club participated at the Chemistry 
Day at the Museum on October 13 (Slime), had a bake sale on Oct 30 and will be 
performing a demonstration at Prairie Ridge Elementary school for 4th graders on 
Nov 9.
   3. *CGSA* – AH reported that CGSA provided 6 volunteers for Chemistry Day at the 
Museum (Oct 13) and 4 volunteers for the NCW outreach event - helping to refurbish 
the Oshtemo Historical Society’s Drake House (Oct 26).
   4. *NOBCChE* – CA reported that volunteers from NOBCChE staffed two activities at 
Chemistry Day (Oct 13). They are presently planning a hot chocolate fund raising 
event to support the Global Host Project and provide public toilet facilities for three 
small villages in Ghana, West Africa.
5. **Events Updates & Old Business**
   1. *NCW & Chemistry Day at the Museum*
      – Oct. 13th, 12-4pm.
      - Two schools submitted Illustrated Postersfor the national contest. Winning 
posters in grade levels 6-8 and 9-12 were submitted and each student received a 
$15 Pizza Hut gift card as a prize
      - As indicated above (CGSA report) 4 volunteers did an outreach event in support 
of the concept of “Doing more with less”
      - The Monday Night Live TV program announcement of the year’s NCW theme 
and of the Chemistry Day at the Museum event was completed on October 1 with 
the willing help of 2 WMU faculty members and 4 WMU students
      - 59 volunteers presented 24 hands-on activities to 727 patrons at the Kalamazoo 
Valley Museum on October 13. The response from the patrons was positive and 
reports from participants after the event encourage us to continue to make a 
difference in youngsters’ perception of science/chemistry.
   2. *ACS Tour Speaker* – Dr. Werner from Union College spoke on Oct 23rd about 
doping in sports. There were 54 attendees, which included a group of chemistry 
students from Gull Lake High School. ES, DW and WMU chemistry professor 
James Kiddle accompanied Dr. Werner for dinner after the talk. Dr. Werner was 
accompanied by Andre Venter for a tour at Forensic Fluids in the morning on Oct 24 
before his departure.
   3. *“The Elements of Dance”* – ES reviewed the plans for this event and showed the 
winning t-shirt design. She distributed flyers for members to pass along at their 
work places. Multiple donations have been received from various companies and 
scientific organizations, which will allow this event to be fully funded from outside 
sources.
   4. *“Sustainable Science – Recycle a Poster”* – ES confirmed that John Mallet, Director 
of Production, Bell’sBrewing, will give a presentation on brewing science.
   5. *Elections* – John Engelmann (JE) attended the meeting, introduced himself to the 
Executive Committee, and confirmed his interest in standing for election as our 
chair electin 2013. DW confirmed his interest in standing for election as alternate
councilor. We have not found a nominee to replace JM as treasurer but he agreed 
to stand for reelection. Elections will be held immediately so that we can comply 
with the deadline for submission of new officers’ contact data to headquarters by December 1. The election ballot is to be prepared by the Section secretary (Carolyn 
Pugh). We plan to use Survey Monkey to collect the votes as in previous years. 
Elke volunteered to collect biographical information from each candidate for the 
election announcement that will be sent to the membership.
   6. *Science Café* – JE has offered to present a talk to our members on the US patent 
reform act. We expect to this to be scheduled in February 2013.
6. **New Business**
   1. *KACS Bylaws* – DW offered to organize a bylaws review session for the Executive 
Committee.
   2. *KACS Mission Statement* – ES has asked us to reflect on drafting a mission statement 
for our section.
   3. There is a need to update the content under “Volunteer Opportunities” on our website.
   4. Newsletter: There likely will be one more Newsletter – possibly with
ballot/candidate bio information, and a report on the November 9 event…
   5. The next meeting will take place on Thurs. Dec 6th at 6:30 pm at Hunan Gardens. 