---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: 18:35
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Josh Abbott (JA), Lydia Hines (LH), Alia Hinz (AH),
	   Brianna Hyder (BH), John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Don Schreiber, (DS), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Maren Zanotti (MZ)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
ES made a small revision to the September minutes. The Executive Committee approved 
the September minutes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – JM reported that the $195 received from ACS was the local 
section commission award for new members. JM also reported that reimbursement 
from the October 2011 Chocolate talk has not been received. DW will find out why 
KACS has yet to be reimbursed. 
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* – JM stated that several checks have 
been cleared and two checks remain outstanding; Project SEED student and the 
Vanguard investment.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Web Site Report* – No report
   2. *Facebook Page Update* – DW reported that the KACS Facebook page currently has 
21 likes. Upcoming events are being posted and other members suggested that they 
will “share” the events on their personal Facebook pages.
   3. *KACS Photos* – No report
   4. *KACS website* – No report
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student 
   Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – JA reported that the chemistry club is actively recruiting new 
members. The group is interested in getting involved with chemistry week and LH 
suggested that the students come to Museum Day. JA also stated that the chemistry 
students, as a part of their SIP projects, will participate in a presentation style 
assignment (i.e. demonstrations at a local elementary school).
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – MZ reported that the Chem Club is recruiting new members
through freshman seminars. The students will be doing demonstrations at various 
elementary schools. The students will be volunteering at Museum Day on Oct. 13th
, sponsoring an Apple Cider Social for RSO’s (Registered Student Organizations) as 
well as a Halloween Bake Sale.
   3. *CGSA* – AH reported that they are finalizing details for Museum Day and scheduling 
a community event at Oshtemo Township. 
   4. *NOBCChE* – No report. LH stated that the organization had a successful event in 
Washington D.C.
5. **Events Updates**
   1. *Chemistry Day at the Museum* – Oct. 13th, 12-4pm. LH stated that more money is 
needed than what was allocated in the budget. Twenty-four activities are planned and 
DW will ask Melissa Basileo if she is available to take pictures during this event. 
The volunteer forms and background checks are almost complete. LH also asked for 
volunteers to distribute placemats to restaurants in the Kalamazoo and Portage areas 
to advertise the event; BH volunteered to help.
LH said the Monday Night Live with Keith Roe went very well. Four students 
participated. The poster project is ongoing.
ACS Tour Speaker – Dr. Werner from Union College is scheduled to speak on Oct 
23rd about doping sports. ES is working on putting a program together. She also 
asked if anyone was able to escort Dr. Werner to the Forensic Fluids as well as dinner 
after his presentation.
   2. *KIA Innovative Project Grant (IPG)* – The “Elements of Dance” event will take place 
on Friday, November 9th, from 6:30 to 9:30 pm at the KIA. ES hopes this event will 
combine chemistry and culture as well as provide a networking opportunity for 
members and educate people on the goals of the ACS. The event is open to KACS 
members and non-members (public) and a variety of dances will be showcased to 
illustrate chemical concepts and/or elements. Games, prizes and souvenirs will be 
available. ES advertised a t-shirt design contest for chemistry students with the theme 
of combining chemistry and dance. The winning design will be used to have shirts 
made and sold as a fundraiser. 
ES is looking for donations for the IPG event. She has contacted VWR, SigmaAldrich and WMU and plans on contacting Kalsec, AM Todd and Stryker. ES asked 
the Executive Committee as to thoughts on obtaining a liquor license and having wine 
and beer available at the event. Guests will get two drink tickets for the event. LH 
stated that she would check ID’s at the door. JM requested a more detailed budget.
   3. “Sustainable Science – Recycle a Poster” event, sponsored by Pfizer, will take place
on Dec. 4th from 5:00 to 9:00 pm at Bell’s Eccentric Café. John Mallet, who is 
Director of Productions at Bell’s, will give a presentation. The contract and deposit 
for Bell’s is done and volunteers are needed for this event. This event will hopefully 
foster collaborations with local businesses and universities for future projects. 
Possible “speed dating” sessions were discussed as a way to increase participant 
interactions during the poster session.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Office Succession* – John Engelman has expressed interest in filling the Chair-Elect 
position in the KACS Section. The treasurer’s position (2-year commitment) is open
as well.
   2. An NCW Coordinator is also being sought; after 25 years, Lydia Hines is stepping 
down.
   3. *Newsletter* - Deadline for submission is Oct. 25th. LH asked if David Bolliet would 
include the list of WCC awards. The ACS Tour Speaker and events during NCW will 
be highlighted. The IPG event at the KIA will also be included. 
   4. The next meeting will take place on Thurs. Nov. 1st at 6:30 pm at Hunan Gardens.