---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
time: 18:35
location: McGinnis Landing
roll-call: [Melissa Basileo (MB), Dave Bolliet(DB), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Brianna Hyder (BH)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. *Review of May minutes and June “Notes”*
Executive Committee approved the May 2012 meeting minutes. An EC meeting was not held in June. LH drafted notes and ES distributed prior to the meeting. Two students involved in Project SEED were added to the notes and the notes will be posted online.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* - The EC approved the July Treasurer’s Report. An increase in net worth was reported by JM due to receiving funds from the ACS for Project SEED, reimbursement from travel for the January Leadership Conference, Pfizer Animal Health donation and Bridging the Gap Nanogrant. JM also stated that once the Project SEED final reports are signed, the remaining funds will be allocated. JM will revise the June Treasurer’s Report and re-send for EC approval.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account update* - JM reported that the investments are valued at approximately $17,500 with $8000 remaining to be transferred from checking. JM also reported that he is still awaiting reimbursement from the ACS for the fall 2011 Tour Speaker.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Website Report* - DB reported low activity on the website. The beginning of June showed higher activity due to the newsletter being sent out. DB will research information regarding the bounce rate and what this percentage represents
   2. *Facebook Page Update* - DB reported that the Kalamazoo ACS page is published on Facebook with eight “likes.” Advertising the Facebook will continue in future KACS communications. DB, ES and Steve Bertman will be administrators of the page and it was discussed that any EC member could potentially be administrators.
   3. *KACS Photos* - MB distributed a proposed position description for a KACS Photographer and discussed the benefits of creating a photo archive for the KACS. MB would attend KACS eventsto take photographs or would make arrangements for someone else to do so if she could not attend. She would maintain the archive of pictures through a WMU server. DB would review and approve the pictures prior to being used in any type of communication or posted on the Facebook page. LH also pointed out that having a photo archive is useful in preparing the annual report.
   4. Some comments were presented regarding the possibility of developing our own website independent of the WMU server. 
   5. Posting of locally available jobs on the website was discussed and DB and JM will find out more information on the logistics and requirements at WMU for being able to do this.
4. **Other Committee Reports** (various)
   1. *Education*: Report on Award Ceremony and Project SEED
      1. ES reported that a report regarding the Award Ceremony is on the website and was included in the newsletter. 
      2. A reception was held on August 9th at Haenicke Hall, at which two KACS’ Project SEED students presented their summer work in a poster session; this was in conjunction with the poster session scheduled for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) participants at WMU.
   2. *National Chemistry Week* (NCW) - LH discussed events for NCW that will be held in October: 
      1. She will be coordinating the activities(Chemistry Day at the Museum) that will take place on Saturday, October 13, from 12-4 pm, at the Kalamazoo Valley Museum and many volunteers will be needed.
      2. An Illustrated Poem contest will also be held during Octoberfor grades K-12; information regarding this contest will be sent to high school teachers and to the K-8 teachers whose addresses she has; the top four winners (one from each grade level K-2, 3-5, 6-8, 9-12) will be rewarded with a $10 Pizza Hut gift card and these will then be entered into the national competition.
      3. There will be an interview on Public Media Network on October 1, to advertise the Museum activity, to present the benefits of Chemistry and to present the nanomaterials emphasis in this year’s theme. The program will be “Monday Night Live”, Drs. Sherine Obare and Gellert Mezei from WMU will be interviewed by Keith Roe.
      4. LH discussed the community event during NCW in which the theme would be “To Do More With Less.” Possible events that were discussed included a recycling project, neighborhood/park clean up or a food drive in conjunction with the Boy Scouts; JMM to communicate with CGSA and his Boy Scout troop/Council.
5. **Western Michigan and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* - TS reported that due to summer break, the Chem Club has no scheduled activities.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* - Brianna reported that the Chem Club will be at Bronco Bash on September 7th and that new t-shirts and a banner will be available.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* - No report. Brianna stated that a Fall welcome event is planned for the graduate students.
   4. *NOBCChE* – No report
6. **Old Business**
   1. *Events* - ES reported that approximately 30 people attended the CGSA picnic in June and that a report was sent to SB to post in Past Events on the website. LH drafted a report on the Allegan Meet and Greet Event; it was posted on the website.
7. **New Business**
   1. *Event Planning* - ES discussed options for a fall tour ACS speaker, which include a retired NCIS forensic scientist or talk regarding doping in sports. Dates that were discussed were the last few weeks in September. ES is going to discuss with DW on arranging this speaker. The Pfizer sponsored event that will take place at Bell’s is tentatively scheduled for December 3rd or 4th. DB suggested having John Mallet, Bell’s production manager, be the speakerfor this event. Chemistry Day at the Museum for NCW will take place on October 13. The Innovative Project Grant event is tentatively scheduled for November 9th.
   2. *Office Succession and Elections* - The EC is seeking candidates for two chair elects and a treasurer.
   3. *2015 Regional Meeting* - Two volunteers have stepped up for the 2015 Joint Regional Meeting: an Exhibits co-chair and a Program co-chair; we need many more. LH will make further contact with the Central Region.
   4. *Next Newsletter/PR Email* timing and content - The deadline for content to DB was set for September 7: volunteers for Chem Day; ad for Facebook page; Elections!; Announcement ofChemAble grant, etc.
   5. Next EC meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, September 4th 6:30 p.m., location TBD