---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens
author: Doug Williams and Lydia Hines
time: "18:40"
roll-call: [Joshua Abbott (JA), David Bolliet (DB), Kevin Douglass (KD),
	   Lydia Hines (LH), Brianna Hyder (BH),John Miller (JM),
	   Margarite Matossian (MM),  Elke Schoffers (ES), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Andre Venter (AV), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** - February minutes were approved with revisions (add AV to attendee list, indicate that Facebook page is yet to be completed, indicate that Operations Manual will be updated with adopted policy to allow any elected KACS officer to submit web page content).
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurers Report* – The March treasurer’s report was approved by the Executive Committee.  Account signatories need to be updated (ES to be added, DW to be removed).
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Acct update* – JM continues to move funds to investment accounts in regularly timed aliquots.
3. **Communications Chair** – Web site report and Facebook page
   1. *Web site report* – DB submitted report that showed spike in traffic after last newsletter and just before the meet and greet event on Feb 7.
   2. *Facebook page update* – DB is putting final touches on the page (logo, for example) and will publish it soon after.
4. **Other Committee Reports** (various) – LH (Awards Committee) reported that nominations for our local member service award are due by May 5.  AV (Education Committee) reported that the Kalamazoo Section High School Science Symposium will be held on May 1 at WMU.   LH reminded AV that Outstanding High School Chemistry Teacher nominations should be solicited in April.
5. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Chapters**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – MM and JA reported that the K-College Chemistry Club attended a college chemistry bowl event at UM-Flint.  They also held a miniature golf contest in the Dow Science Building on campus.  They are preparing to host Woodward Elementary School students in April or May for a forensic science day event.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – BH reported that the Chemistry Club presented a demo at Prarie Ridge Elementary and took a tour of Kalsec.  They are also planning to help host the local High School Science Olympiad on Mar 17.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – KD reported that CGSA has decided to host a summer barbecue event again this year.
   4. *NOBCChE* – ES mentioned that NOBCChE had a nice promotion table at the meet and greet event.  ES will invite representative Clara Adams to our next EC meeting.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *ChemAble grants program* – JM has not received any applications yet.  The grant information has not been posted on our web page yet.  ES will look into this.
   2. *KACS Operations Manual review* – The Project SEED responsibilities have been added.  This is approved and ready to post on our web page.
   3. *Events* – Review / Reports
      - Social event: “Boost your career” (Feb 7) - ES reported that 70 people attended (about 30 students).
      - MS User Group Meeting (Feb 29) - AV reported that 35 people attended of whom 2/3 were members.  The next MS User Group event is planned as visit to LECO (St. Joseph, MI) in August.
7. **New Business**
   1. *Events* – Preview
      - March / April Science Café.  ES has invited Paul Pancella to give a presentation on his project to convert his petroleum fueled auto into an electric powered car.  We will target the dates of Mar 19-22.  DW will obtain cost and available dates for the upper room at Martini’s Restaurant.
      - Spring Speaker / collaboration with neighboring sections(s).  ES provided a short list of possible speakers from which we selected Lee Marek (Chemistry on the Letterman Show) or Thomas Werner (Doping in Sports) as favored choices.  She will proceed to explore dates and possible partnership with the Western Michigan, Michigan State and St. Joseph Local Sections.
      - Earth Day.  LH is seeking volunteers to help with Chemists Celebrate Earth Day at the Kalamazoo Nature Center open house on Apr 21, 9 am – 4 pm).  MM and JA indicated that they would promote this event to the K-College Chem Club members.
   2. *Bassam Shakashiri’s website* - LH reported that ACS President Shakashiri is promoting a web site that celebrates the accomplishments of notable graduates of land grant universities, now on the occasion of the sesquicentennial of the Morrill Land Grant Act.
   3. *ACS Fellows Program* - ES pointed out that Local Sections are invited to nominate candidates for designation as ACS Fellows for long-term service to ACS.  Our section is allowed one nominee because we have one councilor.  We did not generate any names for recognition at this time.
   4. *Next newsletter / PR Email* – timing and content.  DB must have all content by Mar 24 to distribute our next newsletter on Mar 28.  A draft list of content and responsible authors is:
      - Message from the Chair (ES)
      - Recent event reports (ES and AV)
      - Chemists Celebrate Earth Day (LH)
      - Call for Local Section Awards nominations (LH)
      - Chem Club reports (MM, JA for K-College, BH for WMU)
      - Puzzle (ES)
   5. *Succession plan* (ES, DW) - No progress to report.
   6. *Member Retention* Bridging the Gap Nano-Grant - ES will seek support from members at Perrigo for holding a section event in the Allegan area.  The grant proposal (for $250) is due on Mar 12.
   7. *WCC Steering Committee Elections* - LH reported that Kim Greve, Sue Stapleton and Carolyn Pugh are serving on this committee this year.
   8. LH announced that our Chemistry Day at the Kalamazoo Valley Museum for NCW will be on Saturday, October 13; the theme will focus on "nano"materials; it is the 25th anniversary of NCW and our Section's 26th event at the Museum.
   9. *Other* - DW asked about retention of links to memorials on our web site.  The EC agreed that these should be removed after one year.

Next meeting will be at 6:30 pm on Wednesday, April 4th at Hunan Gardens.

Parking lot for future agenda items Joint Regional Meeting 2015 – thinking ahead (LH) Develop electronic archive on KACS Web Site (LH and DW)