---
layout: minutes
category: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:45"
roll-call: [Clara Adams (CA), Lydia Hines (LH), Margarite Matossian (MM),
	   Dominic Millhein (DM), Carolyn Pugh (CP), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Don Schreiber (DS), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** - March minutes were approved with no changes. CP would like to thank LH, ES and DW for recording the minutes for the March meeting!
2. **Treasurer’s Report** - JM could not attend this month’s meeting and emailed the report to the Executive Committee Members. ES distributed the report as well. The report was approved by the committee.
3. **Communications Chair** – Web site report and Facebook page DB was not able to attend the meeting. ES reported that DB is not completely done with the Facebook page.
4. **Other Committee Reports** (various)
   1. DS reported on that the preliminary Chemistry Scholarship Exams were distributed to local high schools and they have been returned to the new competitive exams chair, James Kiddle (JK) and graded. Those students who scored in the top 10% on that exam along with the top 10 scorers from each participating school will then be invited to take an exam at WMU on April 28th. At that point the top 10 students along with 10 Honorable Mention awardees will then be presented with an award at the Awards Gathering on May 21st. Details of this event will be communicated to the committee by DS. 
   2. A letter drafted by ES to the area high school teachers that administered the exam was reviewed by the committee. The letter introduced James Kiddle as the new chair of the Exam subcommittee and addressed teachers’ concerns about this year’s exam. 
   3. LH reported that the deadline for nominating a Local Section Member for an award was May 5.
5. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organization**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – MM reported that she participated in the WMU Science Olympiad on March 17th with the WMU Chem Club. MM and Briana Hyder (BH) are planning another event in which chemistry students from both universities can participate. MM reported that students from Kalamazoo College will be volunteering at the Kalamazoo Nature Center for Earth Day on April 21st. MM said that she would contact LH in order to coordinate what type of activities the students can help with. The Kalamazoo College chemistry Facebook page has details posted for Earth Day activities. MM stated that ten chemistry students will be presenting their SIP reports on Friday April 13th from 4:00 to 5:30 pm and Saturday April 14th from 9:00 to 11:30 am at Kalamazoo College. A Forensics Day in the Dow Building at Kalamazoo College is scheduled for May 10th. The chemistry students will create a crime scene and participants will be able to solve the crime.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – DS reported that on April 18th a Science Night at Plainwell Schools is scheduled. Events of the Chem Club were reported in the March newsletter. Nominations for new officers will take place on April 4th.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – No report.
   4. *NOBCChE* – NOBCChE is a organization that supports minorities in the science community. CA provided a brief explanation to the committee on the type of activities in which NOBCChE is involved. Students involved in the organization perform chemistry demonstrations at various local schools, provide tutoring for chemistry and chemical engineering undergraduates, mentor high school students and organize social events for chemical engineering graduate students. An ice cream sale on campus during the summer time is a fundraiser for the organization. A chemistry demonstration on WMU campus is scheduled for May 3rd for elementary students. Elections of officers will be taking place this spring for the 2012-2013 academic year. DS encouraged CA to communicate with LH in regards to contacting local area schools when coordinating demonstrations. ES asked CA to inform KACS of upcoming NOBCChE events which can be included in the newsletter.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *Event Review: “Hondatron”* – ES reported that the March Science Café by Paul Pancella received positive feedback. Approximately 40 people attended and the cost was $420.
   2. *ACS Local Sections and Member Retention: Bridging the Gap NanoGrant* – ES provided information on a $250 grant awarded to our Section by the ACS for a member retention program. KACS encompasses Kalamazoo, Allegan and Van Buren counties. Organizing events in counties other than Kalamazoo can increase participation within the Local Section and encourage members to continue their membership. ES and DM are organizing an early summer social event at Perrigo (Allegan county). A brief presentation of KACS activities and services will be highlighted and there will be an opportunity for members and participants to interact.
7. **New Business**
   1. *Councilors Report* – Prior to the meeting, LH emailed her report from the ACS National Meeting in San Diego, CA that took place last month. She briefly reviewed this report during the meeting. LH stated the meeting was well attended. The full report is posted on the KACS website.
   2. *Events* Preview
      1. Earth Day – Earth Day will take place on April 21st from 9am to 4pm at the Kalamazoo Nature Center. LH reported that she received 18 entries for the poster poem contest and four new teachers in the KACS area responded to the invitation to partcipate. MM will contact LH as to the involvement of Kalamazoo College students for this event. LH will be present at the Nature Center for this event and Kim Greve from the Women Chemists Committee is volunteering for this event as well.
      2. Allegan Meet and Greet Event – ES and DM will be working together to organize this event to take place on a Friday in late June (see details above in 6b). ES would like organizations such as WMU Chem Club, Kalamazoo College and NOBCChE to display information as well as provide an opportunity for networking.
      3. Science Café – ES would like to plan a Science Café event at some time in September. Options for topics include the chemistry of food, chemistry of blood doping or the breeding of lilies. This will be discussed as September draws closer.
      4. ACS Tour Speaker – ES discussed the possibility of having an ACS Tour Speaker during the fall. The Nobel Laureate, Dan Shechtman, or a chemist that is a member of Phi Betta Kappa honor society are options for speakers. 
   3. *Innovative Project Grant* (IPG) – ES distributed information regarding IPG that are awarded to local sections by the ACS. June 30th is the deadline for submissions of applications, with notification of award by October 1st and if KACS were awarded an IPG, an event during the beginning of November would be ideal. The grant is valued at $3000.
   4. *Electronic Archive* – No report.
   5. *Next Newletter/PR Email* – ES will suggest to DB that a different layout of the newsletter can provide differentiation between issues. Content would include information on the awards ceremony on May 21st, CGSA Summer BBQ date, comments from the Chair, submissions for Local Sections Awards to LH by May 5th, Perrigo Meet and Greet event, the search for general and program co-chairs for the 2015 Joint Regional ACS Meeting and reports from student organizations. Deadline for submission of content in the newsletter is April 20th.
   6. *Additions* – ES reminded the committee of the events taking place April 9th to the 11th involving Dr. Gunda Georg. ES will be on the radio Monday morning on WKZO promoting these events.
8. **Around the Table** - LH will contact Jochanan Stenesh for whom we received a certificate for his 50-year membership in the ACS. She will invite him to the Awards Gathering. General and program co-chairs are still needed for the 2015 Joint Regional ACS Meeting in Grand Rapids. This information will be included in the next newsletter. Our National Chemistry Week activity at the Kalamazoo Valley Museum will take place on October 13th. Advertisement of events during the week could be announced on the local cable access channels.

Next meeting will take place on Wednesday, May 9th at 18:30 at Hunan Gardens.