---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:40"
roll-call: [Dave Bolliet (DB), Lydia Hines (LH), Alia Hinz (AH),
	   Brianna Hyder (BH), John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
ES will make the correction noted by JM on the August minutes regarding the Vanguard 
investment account and will submit to SB for online posting. The August minutes were approved
with correction noted.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – The August report was approved. JM reported that the Project SEED 
students were paid, deposit of $250 was paid to the Kalamazoo Institute of Art (KIA) for the 
Innovative Project Grant event on November 9th and ES asked for $100 deposit to hold the date for 
the Bell’s Recycle-a-Poster event in December. JM received a $195 check from ACS and cannot 
trace as what it pertains to. ES contacted a Perrigo representative regarding expenses at the June 
Meet and Greet event but has not heard back.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* – JM reported that $2000 was put into the 
Vanguard investment account. The Pfizer donation for the December Bell’s event was deposited 
and that an outstanding check for Jane Fisher, a competitive exam awardee from Kalamazoo 
Central high school, will be tracked down through James Kiddle.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Website Report* – DB stated that website activity is very low and subsequently a report was not 
generated. He reported on the bounce rate, which is included when a report is generated. The 
bounce rate represents the percentage of single page visits i.e. the user goesto the website and does 
not navigate other pages on the site.
   2. *Facebook Page Update* – DB reported that Facebook “likes” increased from 8 to 17. ES will be 
granted administrative privileges to the Facebook site. Melissa Basileo (MB) will be given limited 
permission with the ability to post pictures.
   3. *KACS Photos* – DB reported that MB posted 18 pictures from 2011 Chemistry Day at the 
Museum. DB is going to draft a waiver form regarding posting pictures with minors on Facebook 
and he suggested using Kalamazoo Public Schools waiver form as an example.
   4. *KACS Website Update* – DB did not have any new information to report.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – No report
   2. *WMU Chem Club*
BH reported that the Chem Club will be present at Bronco Bash on September 7th from 3 to 7 pm 
in the Miller Auditorium parking garage. Chemistry themed games will be played and prizes 
given away.
   3. WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association
AH reported that the association is discussing having informal gatherings once a month to discuss 
areas such as career opportunities and strategies after graduation. LH recommended that they 
contact the ACS Career Office (David Harwell) for information and possible literature, webinars, 
mentoring. JM also suggested that the grad students look into participating in the Community 
Outreach Event with the theme of “Doing More with Less” during National Chemistry Week.
   4. *NOBCChE* – No report
5. **Old Business**
   1. *KACS website posting of local job offers* – DB is communicating with Steve Bertman 
regarding requirements for posting jobs on the website. The Vertellus job announcement was sent 
to KACS members by e-mail.
   2. *ACS Fall Tour Speaker* – ES contacted Tom Werner from Union College about giving a talk to 
our local section about doping in sports. This event is tentatively scheduled for October 23rd and 
will be held at either WMU or Kalamazoo College.
   3. *Pfizer Event* - The Pfizer sponsored “Recycle a Poster” event will take place at Bell’s on December 4th from 5-9 pm. Student volunteers are needed for the event. ES will check with John Wendt concerning having John Mallett, Bell’s production manager, be the keynote speaker at the event.
   4. *National Chemistry Week* - LH reported that an e-mail was sent to K-12 teachers regarding the NCW Illustrated Poem poster. The NCW community event theme is “Doing More with Less.” A live Access channel (TV) interview (Monday Night Live) will be recorded on October 1st; two of our Section Members will be interviewed and students will perform an experiment. Volunteers are still needed for Chemistry Day at the Museum and LH will send an email out asking for help as well as write an article for the Newsletter. The deadline for submissions is set for September 26th.
   5. *Innovative Project Grant* – The event will take place on November 9th at the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts.
   6. *2015 Regional Meeting* – LH reported that this will be a Joint regional meeting of our Region (Great Lakes) with theCentral Region (CR). The Joint Great Lakes Central Regional Meeting (JGLCRM) dates and location are still not finalized. Great Lakes co-chairs for the exhibits and program have volunteered. Many volunteers are needed for this event. Contacts with the Central Region are ongoing.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Office Succession and Elections* – Treasurer, Chair and Chair-Elect are being sought to fill positions in KACS for 2013.
   2. *ACS Council Meeting Agenda in Philadelphia* – LH submitted a report regarding the ACS National Meeting last month. Highlights included: approximately 13,000 attendees (25% students); use of FORMS reporting system has increased timely submission of Annual Reports; there are some concerns regarding domestic Membership; and the member registration fees for meetings in 2013 was set at $370.
   3. *Next Newsletter/PR Email* – Timing and Content
The deadline for content for the newsletter will be September 10th and it will be distributed on September 14th. Content will include a call for volunteers for Chemistry Day at the Museum, a call for volunteersfor Pfizer event at Bell’s, an announcement of the IPG event on November 9th, a statement about job openings in the area, an introduction for Melissa Basileo as the KACS photographer, and a summary of the PUR water collection total by the KACS section and nationally.
   4. Next EC meeting will take place on October 2 at 6:30 pm.
7. **Additions**
   - LH stated that the 2013 Earth Day theme will be “Our Earth, Handle with Care.”
   - JM suggested to AH about using the ACS career service webinars and sharing the slides with other graduate students. These could be used for the proposed science cafes.
   - JM stated that Don Schreiber suggested having small breakout sessions at the Pfizer poster event to encourage more interactions among the attendees.
   - LH informed the committee that the Women Chemists Committee celebrated its 85th year at the National Meeting. She distributed a sheet that outlined the various awards that the committee gives out to women in chemistry. DB will publish some of these awards in the next newsletter.
   - We decided that we would place on our website a link to the Kalamazoo College Chem Club’s website.