---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:40"
roll-call: [Kevin Douglass (KD), Lydia Hines (LH), John Miller (JM),
	   Carolyn Pugh (CP), Elke Schoffers (ES), Don Schreiber (DS),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Andre Venter (AV)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. January minutes were approved with no changes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurers Report* – The February treasurer’s report was approved by the Executive Committee. JM is expecting reimbursement from the ACS for expenses accrued for ES and CP attending the ACS Leadership Conference. JM also reported that he updated his accounting software.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Acct update* – No report.
3. **Communications Chair** – Web site report and Facebook page
   1. *Web site report* – DW, reporting for DB (David Bolliet), stated that website activity was low for the month of January. Total unique visitors to the site were 30, with Jan 5th showing a spike in visits. DB performed an annual “check-up” of the website and reported that all links were working properly and corrections to the ACS logo were made. DB suggested that a modernization of the website is something to consider for the future. A member of WMU’s astronomy society could provide guidance as to updating the look of the site. The committee decided that web site content may be submitted by elected KACS officers and posted directly without Executive Committee approval.
   2. *Facebook page update* – DW reported that the Facebook page will soon be completed. Once updated, it will be announce to the membership. ES will mention that the Facebook page is available during the “Boost Your Career” event on Tuesday, February 7th.
4. **Other Committee Reports** (various) – No report
5. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Chapters**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – No report from Tom Smith on the chemistry spelling contest that was mentioned at last month’s meeting. ES contacted Regina Stevens-Truss to invite chemistry students to the “Boost Your Career” event. She communicated to Dr. Stevens-Truss that K College students can contribute information about upcoming chemistry events at Kalamazoo during the event.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – DS reported that the Chem Club will be present at the “Boost Your Career” event. The club has various upcoming activities such as a bake sale and a speaker from the local crime lab.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – KD reported that CGSA will be at the “Boost Your Career” event and he asked for volunteers from the CGSA to serve alcohol.
   4. *NOBCChE* – ES proposed inviting leaders from NOBCChE to attend KACS events and meetings. NOBCChE is a professional organization for Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers. ES is going to contact Clara Adams to discuss this partnership.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *ChemAble grants program* – JM reported that the ChemAble grants program information is included in the current newsletter.
   2. *Annual Report 2011 and other end of the year paperwork* – DW reported that the 2011 events have been entered in the annual report. LH stated the financial portion of the annual report has been approved. DW nominated KACS for Outstanding Section Award and an International Year of Chemistry Award. Three ChemLuminary award nominations were the Bell’s poster session for Most Innovative Activity and an award for stimulating member involvement. The chocolate talk was nominated for best partnership award. Discussion as to whether Science Cafes and other events can constitute a member meeting.
   3. *Report on ACS Leadership Conference* – ES reported that she thought the leadership conference provided great information for newly elected officers of ACS Local Section/Division governance. The seminar on using FORMS as not just an annual reporting tool she thought was useful as well.
   4. *KACS Operations Manual review* – DS provided a description of his Project SEED responsibilities and ES will incorporate this into the Operations Manual. ES stated that next month the manual will be posted and changes can be made throughout the year as this is a “living” document.
7. **New Business**
   1. *Events* – Looking ahead Feb-Apr.
      - Update on social event on Feb 7, “Boost Your Career” – ES briefly reviewed the event and said that the panel will consist of representatives from Stryker, MPI, Kalsec, WMU and Pfizer. ES will begin the event with a brief power point presentation of ACS highlights from the past year. She asked the executive committee to submit “warm-up” questions to start the panel discussion and she will generate a comments form for the attendees to complete after the event.
      - MS User Group, Feb – AV communicated details of the Feb. 29th MS User Group talk sponsored by Waters. Don Jones from MSU and a Waters representative will be speaking followed by a poster session. The event will be held either at Bell’s or Martini’s at 5:30pm where food and drinks will be provided.
      - March Science Café – ES discussed a future Science Café in March and is looking for feedback for a topic and a venue.
      - Spring Speaker – ES discussed the possibility of having a spring speaker and collaborating with a neighboring section to share in the cost.
      - Earth Day – Information regarding the Illustrated Poster Contest in connection with Chemists Celebrate Earth Day is included in the current newsletter. LH will represent the KACS and have available ACS-provided literature, pertinent to our 2012 theme of Rethinking Recycling: It’s Easy to be Green at the Kalamazoo Nature Center on April 21, 9am to 4pm.
      - Event PR – ES discussed different media that could be used to advertise upcoming KACS events such as cable access or the Kalamazoo Gazette.
   2. *Succession plan* – Everyone on the executive committee agreed that we need to recruit “warm bodies” for future committee vacancies.
   3. *Next newsletter* timing and content - The next newsletter will most likely go out the first week in March. Possible content would include promotion of the MS User Group, upcoming Science Café and seminars, photo’s from the “Boost Your Career” event, Earth Day, ChemAble grants and any job openings in the area.
   4. *New agenda items* – JM reported that the 2011 ACS tax form was e-filed.
8. **Around the Table and date for next meeting** – DS reported that he submitted a request for two Project SEED students. LH stated that the Western Michigan Section (Central Region) has agreed to act as co-hosts with our section (Great Lakes Region) for a Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional Meeting to be held in Grand Rapids in 2015. Program chairs and General co-chairs are currently being sought. ES discussed a future event and partnering with the Girl Scouts in order to attract young women to an event.

Next meeting will be at 6:30 pm on Wednesday, March 7th at Hunan Gardens.

**Parking lot for future agenda items**
Joint Regional Meeting 2015 – thinking ahead (LH)
Develop electronic archive on KACS Web Site (LH and DW)