---
location: Hunan Gardens - 18:30
category: minutes
layout: minutes
---

Joel Coburn (JC), John Engelmann (JE), Lydia Hines (LH), Brianna Hyder (BH), Maren Zanotti 
(MZ), John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP), Elke Schoffers (ES), Tom Smith (TS), Doug 
Williams (DW)

1. **Secretary’s Report** - Minutes were compiled by DW with the help by LH. Minutes were 
approved by the Executive Committee.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. JM distributed the Treasurer’s report. The donated money was spent and stayed 
within budget for the Bell’s and KIA events. Net worth dropped about 3% and cash 
was moved into the investment fund. JM stated that perhaps too much cash was 
moved and some could be taken back out. Cash on hand is $5300 for various 
programs. AAAS and VWR need to send the sponsorship donation promised for the 
dance event. The report showed that $1200-1300 can carry over to next year.
   2. Investment Fund/Checking Account update – Financing for events went well and 
outstanding checks were discussed. ES will submit expenses for the fall tour speaker 
to national ACS (approximately $320). DW will send ES the spreadsheet for 
submitting expenses to national ACS.
3. **Communications Report**
   1. Web Site Report – There were spike in website traffic when the newsletter or emails 
were posted, such as 152 visits prior to the dance event and the email for election. 
DW distributed website report and David is working with Steve to get more details 
from the website. 
   2. Facebook page – Melissa Basileo added more photos from the dance event and ES 
will upload pictures from the Bell’s event.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. Kalamazoo College – TS had no report as students are on break. Kalamazoo College 
students presented at the Bell’s event.
   2. WMU Chem Club – MZ reported that the Chem Club attended the Bell’s event, 
participated in a school visit with 4th graders and volunteered at the Elements of 
Dance event. BH reported that a College a “Battle of the chemistry clubs”
competition will take place sometime in January.
   3. WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association – No report. A few of the graduate 
students volunteered at the Elements of Dance event and presented at the Bell’s event.d. NOBCChE – No report.
5. **Event Review**
   1. KIA Innovative Project Grant (IPG) Event: “Elements of Dance” – ES passed around 
pictures and reported that there were 179 participants (public, ACS members and 
students). An article and picture were published in the “Western News” on 
November 15, titled “Community reacts well to mixing of chemistry, dance” 
(www.wmich.edu/westernnews). Evaluation forms and personal comments were very 
positive. The IPG AdvisoryCommittee recommended that a similar event take place 
again in 2013. A report is forthcoming.
   2. Bell’s Eccentric Café, “Sustainable Science – Recycle a Poster” 
poster session – ES reported that 80-90 participants attended and keynote speaker 
John Mallett had a great presentation. Comment forms were very positive. ES will 
summarize the event in a report. 
   3. KACS Elections – the local section currently has 451 members of which 33 voted 
(7% participation). CP will send the election information to ACS after she receives 
the current 2013 form for submission. John Engelmann was elected as Chair-Elect, 
John Miller as Treasurer and Doug Williams as Alternate Councilor. The Alternate 
Councilor will attend meetings if LH is unable to do so. JM suggested that DW 
attend an ACS meeting to familiarize himself with the role of councilor. LH directed 
JE to the Operations manual on the website to learn more about the responsibility of 
the Chair-Elect.
   4. LH reported that one of our Section’s entries to the ACS National competition for the 
Illustrated Poem contest – the one submitted by Cassie Kiewiet, an 11th grade student 
at Heritage Christian Academy – was the first place winner in that category. A copy 
of the illustrated poem was circulated.
6. **Event Preview**
   1. February Science Café – JE will give a presentation regarding basics of patent law, 
why and how patents are granted, changes in patent law (human genes) and 
differences between first to invent and first to file. Venue could possibly be Martini’s 
on a Tuesday during February, or Kalamazoo College on a weeknight other than 
Tuesday (TS to explore). 
   2. Boost Your Career event – Could take place the 2
nd or 3rd week of January. LH will 
look into recruiting an ACS speaker to talk about career issues. Event will take place 
at WMU.
   3. Kalsec is interested in sponsoring a food and chemistry event and DW volunteered to 
be a liaison with Kalsec and KACS as part of the “Chemistry and Culture” IPG focus. Kitchen space will likely be needed and ES will do some fundraising. CP will ask 
friends who may be able to help find a local restaurant that could possibly host this 
event. ES talked with Kalsec’s Executive VP and Lab Director Don Berdahl, who 
showed interest in helping coordinate this event. 
   4. ACS Tour Speakers for 2013 – Al Hazari performs hands on demonstrations and LH 
will check on his availability. 
7. **New Business**
   1. KACS mission statement – a subcommittee needs to be formed to write a mission 
statement. DW will propose a meeting time for January when the Executive 
Committee can meet to discuss the Bylaws and develop a mission statement for our 
Local Section.
   2. Online “volunteer” document – The document needs to be updated. LH will be the 
contact person for others who want to volunteer in KACS events. 
   3. Scheduling of meeting minutes and agendas – ES asked the Executive Committee for 
feedback regarding the timing of email distribution of meeting minutes and agendas 
for upcoming meetings. A more structured schedule was recommended: Minutes will 
be distributed within 7-10 days after a meeting, and a meeting agenda will be emailed 
a few days prior to the next Meeting.
   4. Next Newsletter / PR Email – Deadline for newsletter submissions is Friday, 
December 14th. Content shall include: announcement of illustrated poem contest 
winner, highlights of 2012 events, mass spec user group meeting, dance event, Bell’s 
event, results of elections; the Chem Able grant program needs to be re-advertised in 
the January newsletter.
   5. The next meeting has been scheduled for Wednesday, January 2, 2013at Hunan 
Gardens, 6:30 PM.