---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
time: 18:35
location: Hunan Gardens
roll-call: [Josh Abbott (JA), Kevin Douglas (KD), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   Margarite Matossian (MM), Carolyn Pugh (CP), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Don Schreiber (DS), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** – Corrections to the April meeting minutes include spelling of DS name, spelling of Nobel Laureates name and date. Minutes were approved.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – John Miller (JM) emailed the May report and indicated that expense accrued due to CP’s attendance at Leadership Conference was not properly budgeted. Expenses for the Science Café were more than expected. The report was approved by the Executive Committee.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Acct update* – No report
3. **Communications Chair** – Website report and Facebook page
   1. *Website report* – ES distributed the report which showed a spike in site visits that corresponds to the March 29th newsletter and approximately 35% of new visitors. ES stated that she will review with Steve Bertman (SB) documents on the website to ensure that they are updated.
   2. *Facebook page update* – ES reported that the Facebook page is active and SB has added a link to it on the KACS website Homepage. MM suggested adding a link on the website to the Kalamazoo College Chem Club Facebook page as well; the Executive Committee agreed.
4. **Other Committee Reports** (various)
   1. *Education* Competitive Exam - DS reported that the exam was given on Saturday, April 28th and has been graded. DS will determine if there is duplication of names between the list of Outstanding high school student nominees and the Competitive Exam winners. LH reported that she has 20 Merck Indexes (14th edition) available for presentation as awards. High School Symposium - The High School Symposium took place on May 1st and 100 students from four schools participated, Kalamazoo Central, Homer, Saugatuck and Gull Lake. LH suggested that DS submit a summary of the event to SB which will aid in ES submitting activities for the annual report. High School, College and Kalamazoo Section Award Program – DS stated the program will be held on May 21st from 6-8 pm. RSVP by May 14th will be requested. The teacher awards are in process and to date no nominations for Section Award have been received. LH reported that our one 50-year member, and 6 of 7 past chairs invited to the Awards Program agreed to come and receive their Past-Chair Award pins.
5. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – MM reported that on May 10th, Forensics Day at K College will take place from 3-5 pm. Approximately 30 students from Hillside Middle School will be participating in a “murder investigation” in which they will rely on science to solve the crime. Eight Kalamazoo College students will be volunteering to help with this event. May 24th is the Kalamazoo College Dow-B-Que in which the chemistry students sponsor a “picnic” type setting to reach out to others in scientific disciplines. The Club requested a $300 grant from the Section for this activity; they were instructed to contact our treasurer.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – DS reported that the chemistry demonstrations with local area schools took place the previous month. Elections of Officers for the Chem Club for the fall semester took place prior to summer break. DS will provide a list of the newly elected student officers.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – KD reported that the CGSA picnic will take place on June 8th from 4-7 pm at Osthemo Township Park and officer elections for the 2012-2013 year will be conducted during this time.
   4. *NOBCChE* – Clara Adams communicated in an email to ES that on May 15th, NOBCChE will be conducting chemistry demonstrations for 75 elementary students from Washington Writers Academy on the WMU campus. Demonstrations include acid/base chemistry, chromatography and superabsorbent polymers.
6. **Old Business**
   1. *Earth Day* – LH reported that Earth Day at the Kalamazoo Nature Center went very well. She noted that both children and adults had an enjoyable experience.
7. **New Business**
   1. *Events* Preview – ES is developing the Allegan Meet and Greet Event that will take place on Friday, June 22nd at 3 or 4 pm. More details to follow.
   2. *Innovative Project Grant* – June 30 deadline; notification before Oct. 15th – ES will be applying for an IPG and is asking for suggestions on events that the funds could be used for. The event would be scheduled for the fall of 2012.
   3. *Electronic Archive* – DW reported that there are no updates and he will be collaborating with LH, Steve Bertman and Dave Bolliet to develop the archive.
   4. *Online Picture Respository* – LH suggested that it would be helpful to have a central location where representative pictures of our Section events could be collected. DW suggested that a WMU chemistry student, Melissa Basileo, may be willing to take pictures for KACS and the Communications Committee, Steve Bertman and Dave Bolliet, will review the photos prior to posting on the KACS website or Facebook.
   5. *Next Newsletter/PR Email* timing and content – The deadline for the next newsletter would be June 10th. Content would include an article to announce the Allegan Meet and Greet Event; a summary of the High School Science.
