---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:40"
category: minutes
author: Doug Williams
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Harry Chanzu (HC), John Engelmann (JE), Megan Grunert (MG),
	   Lydia Hines (LH), John Miller (JM), Elke Schoffers (ES),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Mark Wolf (MW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report (EC)**
   1. *Review of “August minutes”* – Executive Committee (EC) approved August minutes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report (JM)**
   1. *Treasurers Report* - Last month’s report was corrected for an erroneous income amount from ACS. This month’s report was approved as submitted.
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account* – No update.
3. **Communications Chair (ES)**
   1. *Web site report* – No traffic report.  The next newsletter is to be distributed very soon. The web site has moved to kalamazooacs.org. The old address points to new one. ES and MW have updated the site with new appearance while keeping the old content. Look for more changes in the near future as events unfold.
   2. *Facebook Page* – No report. Mark will obtain administrative access.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – No report.
   2. *WMU Chem Club & WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.* (ES & LH) – No representative was present but these clubs jointly sponsored a welcome ice cream social to welcome new students at WMU on 9/4/13.  The Chem Club has committed to helping with Chemistry Day.  LH is still waiting to hear from CGSA.
   3. *NOBCChE* (HC) – Members will participate at WMU’s Bronco Bash on Friday, Sept. 13. Seven members are planning to attend the annual NOBCChE conference in Indianapolis on October 1.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional Meeting (LH)* – A planning meeting is scheduled in Indianapolis but the regional meeting chair will not be present. LH was hoping to sign the MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) at that meeting but is not sure if this will be possible. There is no treasurer yet for the regional meeting. Potential meeting sites include Calvin College, GVSU and two downtown hotels. There is some urgency in finalizing agreements in order to get reservations in place. The dates of the regional meeting will be May 13-16, 2015. We still need an awards co-chair from our section.
   2. *Updated member information* (LH) – The remaining seven persons without current addresses have been difficult to locate. This effort is complete.
   3. *KACS election* (JE) - We have not identified nominees for chair-elect or secretary. All EC members will continue to recruit for these important roles.



6. **New Business**
   1. *Climate Change Grant* (JM) – The steering committee has formed a workshop agenda that should allow participating teachers to receive continuing education credit. It is unlikely that all of the intended workshops for the three target groups will be conducted this fall. The committee will meet again next week. Dates and venues are to be confirmed.
   2. *Event schedule* (All):
      1. Sept. 17 - Science Café: Horticultural Chemistry (Wedel’s) 6-8 pm with Dr. James (Gus) Guzinski. ES is considering offering some prizes in the form of flowers. Refreshments and a modest facilities charge ($20-40) have been budgeted. The speaker will receive a $50 honorarium.
      2. Oct. 8 - Zoetis Poster Session (Bell’s) – ES has a lead on a speaker from Kellogg’s for this event.
      3. Oct. 12 - Chemistry Day at the Museum (Sat. Oct. 12, NCW is October 20-26, “Energy: Now and Forever!”) LH reports 18 volunteers have responded so far but many have not committed to an activity. See above for student group participation. MG has some activity plans ready to share with persons or groups who need ideas. LH shared her printed materials that she has collected for NCW.
      4. Oct. 22 - Chemistry & Culture: Food (Bell’s) – Scheduling complications have forced us to push many of our events into a short time frame. After some discussion, we recommended that this event be moved to next year. ES will explore rescheduling the Food event to January 2014 with Bell’s and report back.
      5. Nov. 1 - Chemistry & Culture: Dance (KIA) – ES will continue planning for this event.
   3. *Next PR Email* - Content for the next newsletter is due by October 13th with distribution as soon as practical afterwards. Content will feature summaries of recent events, notice of upcoming events, and our need for candidates to stand for chair-elect and secretary.
   4. Our next meeting will take place on Wednesday, October 2 at 6:30 pm at Hunan Gardens.
7. **Additions**
   1. LH shared a copy of found a Girl Scout publication (The Source) that catalogs their training and teaching opportunities. This might be an interesting way for us to offer a chemistry program for girls.
   2. ES - Bill McKibben will be speaking at WMU on Oct 10. This event is free but requires an online reservation.
