---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:35"
author: Carolyn Pugh
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Josh Abbott (JA), Amanda Bolles (AB), John Engelmann (JE),
	   Lydia Hines (LH), Alia Hinz (AH), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Don Schreiber (DS), Tom Smith (TS),
	   Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** – April meeting minutes were approved by the Executive Committee (EC).
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurers Report* - ES circulated Treasurers Report as JM could not attend.  The Climate Change grant money was received.  The EC approved the report.
   2. Investment Fund / Checking Account update – No report.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Web site report* – No Report.
   2. *Facebook page* – Postings and visits on the FB regarding KACS events.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (TS) – JA introduced AB as she will be representing the Kalamazoo College Chem Club at EC meetings.  JA reported that the Dow B Que event will take place on May 17th and Forensics Day on May 22nd.  The Chem Club is joining with Sisters in Science group to organize Science Day at Dow.  JA is putting a budget together to ask KACS for funding for these events.  The EC asked that a report from the Chem Club be provided in order to include in the newsletter. TS announced that Dan Nocera from MIT will present on the Artificial Leaf on Thursday, May 9th at 7:30 pm in the fine arts building at Kalamazoo College.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* - No report. ES took photos at the Earth Day event of the chromatography activity.  Kalamazoo College students also volunteered at this event.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – AH reported that the annual picnic at Oshtemo Township Park is being organized with a date yet to be determined. AH will communicate the date once determined.
   4. *NOBCChE* – No report.
5. *Old Business*
   1. *Special meeting to discuss bylaws and mission statement* – The EC will meet at LH’s home June 8th at 2pm
   2. *Review of CCED activities* (LH, MZ) – MZ will provide a report regarding the CCED event.  LH submitted a written report and reported that the turnout was good at the Oshtemo Branch of the Kalamazoo Public Library. Pictures from the event were posted on Facebook.
   3. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional meeting* – LH is meeting with the board of the Central Region on May 17th to get more of a commitment regarding planning this meeting.  A general and program co-chair were selected.  A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the two boards involved needs to be agreed upon. The Calvin College campus or a hotel in Grand Rapids are potential event venues.  Future Great Lakes Regionals Meetings are being considered for every other year in odd numbered years.
   4. *Education Committee* (Teacher Award Nominations; Science Symposium; Awards Reception on May 20, DS)
      1. DS gave a brief description of the Education Committee’s responsibilities.  These include the High School Chemistry Symposium, section awards and administration of the high school competitive exam.  The committee includes James Kiddle, Andre Venter, Sherine Obare and is chaired by DS. Obare and Venter of the committee interview high school teachers. Seven applications were received this year. The high school teacher will be selected by the week of May 11th.
      2. The Science Symposium took place on April 30th, which included seven presentation, three tours and approximately 60 students; six area high schools were represented.  LH provided a report for DS to review and amend.
      3. The Awards Reception is scheduled for May 20th. LH reported that all the 50 year members and four past chairs have been invited. One past chair has confirmed attendance, two declined and 1 confirmed attendance. RSVP’s can be submitted until May 13th. Melissa Basileo will be contacted in order to take photos.
      4. ES forwarded information to LH regarding updated member contact information. Three previous members are not current ACS members and LH is still awaiting response from others.
6. **New Business**
   1. *KACS Webmaster* - A replacement is needed for Steve Bertman. The EC recommended that meanwhile SB will continue to be the primary webmaster and ES a back up until a replacement has been identified.
   2. Press Release for a) Mini Science Café Grant grant and b) Climate Change grant (ES)
      1. LH brought flyers concerning climate science from the National Meeting.
      2. A press release announcing that KACS was awarded $3000 grant for Climate Change is being prepared by ES for the Kalamazoo Gazette and will also be included in the next newsletter.  ES stated that a second round of funding has been launched to attract additional grant applications for the education on the science behind climate change.
   3. Upcoming events that need to be discussed is the chemistry and food event.  DW will organize a meeting at Kalsec.  Event is planned to take place in the fall (September).
   4. *Next PR Email* – timing and content of newsletter or email announcement, combined with Facebook and website updates (all) – Email should be distributed before the Awards Reception.  Content will include:  Earth Day activities, CGSA date for picnic, grant from Zoetis for winter poster session, Chemistry and Dance event, Science Café (horticultural chemistry), National Chemistry Week - volunteers needed for NCW Chemistry Day at Kalamazoo Valley Museum and the reading event in Bronson Park (weather dependent) Party in the Park, which involves reading to preschool children in Bronson Park.  LH will prepare a description of this event as well an announcement for the theme of National Chemistry Week, “Energy, Now and Forever” for the next newsletter. Deadline for submissions May 12th. Email content to ACSkzoo@gmail.com
   5. Next EC meeting is Thursday, June 6th.
7. **Additions**
   1. JE and his wife – May 29th reading in the park; read to preschool children at Bronson park with books Kalamazoo public library provides; 1 hour reading time at 10:00 am; KACS participated in a community reading event; put on FB; need to notify the library if members can volunteer
