---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:35"
author: Carolyn Pugh
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Josh Abbott (JA), John Engelmann (JE), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   Alia Hinz (AH), John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. *Review of March minutes* (CP) – March meetings were approved by Executive Committee (EC).
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurers Report* - Report was approved by the EC.  JM reported the ACS allotment check was received as well as the donation from Zoetis for the 2013 December Bell’s poster session. The 2012 check for Nanomoles was paid.  Upcoming expenses and reimbursements include Al Hazari’s talk, LH attendance at ACS National Meeting, awards banquet, high school competitive exam and Project SEED.  ES announced that KACS received the climate change grant for $2995.
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* – JM stated that investments are slowly increasing.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Web site report* – ES received a report from Dave Bolliet that stated 83 total visits on the site from March 11 to April 1 (3.7 visits/day) with a high point of 11 visits on a day that ES sent out an email alert.
   2. *Facebook page* – Upcoming events are posted on the Facebook page.  ES suggested to communicate to others to “like” the page in order for KACS to gain more exposure.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – JA reported that Forensics Day and Dow Science Day will take place during the month of April for the Chemistry Club.  The students will team with Sisters in Science in which participants need to solve the murder of a professor.  During Dow Science Day students from Kalamazoo Public Schools will come to campus in order to learn about science.  Dow B Que is scheduled to take place in the next few months.  It was suggested that requests for funds be submitted and follow-up reports be given after the activities.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – ES received an email from MZ regarding Chemists Celebrate Earth Day (CCED) and that plans are underway for CCED at the Kalamazoo Nature Center.  MZ also reported that the Kalamazoo Public Library has agreed that we can set up an information table at the Earth Day Music Event at the Oshtemo Library branch for CCED the same day, April 20. LH will be present at the library for this event.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.* – AH informed the EC that the graduate students are planning another picnic at the end of May or beginning of June at Oshtemo township park.
   4. *NOBCChE* – By personal communication NM reported to ES that a career development event is being organized to take place in June.  They are seeking funding for this event.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *Special meeting to discuss bylaws and mission statement* – JE will schedule a meeting and communicate details in the next month.  LH offered to host the meeting at her residence.
   2. *Review of March Presenter Al Hazari on Tue, Mar 26* – Chemistry in Comics, WMU – LH reported on the success of the presentation.  Al Hazari gave an impromptu one-hour talk at Haverhill Elementary and LH stated the students and teachers enjoyed his visit.  AH sent his expense report to JM and an honorarium of $300 was given to him.  ES asked LH to write a brief summary of the event to include in the next newsletter.  Teachers and students from the local area attended the presentation at WMU as well.
   3. *Do-Dah Parade* – The EC decided to discontinue efforts in participating in this event and will perhaps revisit this at a later date.
   4. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional meeting* – LH reported that the 2 Regions have committed to co-hosting a meeting.  Unfortunately communication has been minimal; further contact will be made at the National Meeting in New Orleans.  Mark Thomson will serve as a Program co-chair of the meeting. The venue options include Calvin College or a hotel in that area. 
   5. Chemists Celebrate Earth Day – Two activities are planned for the April 20th event.  See above.
   6. *Education Committee Update* (Teacher Awards; Science Symposium on April 30; Awards Reception on May 20)
      1. DS will provide more details for the two presentations that will take place for the Science Symposium as well as details regarding the Awards Reception.  The reception will also recognize the four KACS members with 50-year memberships; LH will present them with certificates for this achievement.
      2. ES reported on the competitive exam for high school students: 480 students took the exam at their high schools, compared to 394 in 2012. Paw Paw and Loy Norrix high schools participated this year. We had 17 out of 34 high schools in our Local Section participate this year compared to 14 high schools in 2012. The average score was a 23.2 and 111 students were invited to take the next level of the examination on the WMU campus (68 students were invited to do so last year). The EC agreed that a press release will be written for the Kalamazoo Gazette following the Awards Reception.
      3. ES collaborated with James Kiddle and Megan Grunert to draft a new application for identifying outstanding high school teachers.  Teachers can self-nominate with support of a reference letter from the principal of the school.  Guidelines regarding content of the reference letters are included with the nomination form.
   7. *Climate Change Grant Application* titled “KACS / WMU Climate Science Collaboration for the Training of Community Leaders” – ES received notification from the ACS president that the grant was awarded to KACS.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Mini Science Café Grant Application* (ES) – ES submitted an application for $300 in which horticultural chemistry will be the topic for the café.   Possible venues include Wedel’s, Farm and Garden, Lowe’s or Home Depot.  Approximately 30-50 participants.  Gus Guzinski will present the café and will be given a nominal honorarium for his presentation.
   2. *Updated member information* – ES asked the EC how member profiles could be updated.  DB generated a list of 10 to 20 email addresses in which communications are “bounced” back.  LH will try to contact via phone and/or a mailing.
   3. *Additional May or June event?* (ES) – ES asked EC if there is interest in an event in May or June. The EC agreed that many events are scheduled and another event will not be planned.
   4. ChemAble Grant – JM reported that no applications have been received and suggested that perhaps the grant should be temporarily suspended.  The program could be inadequately publicized.  ES suggested that individuals could be contacted, announcement at Awards ceremony and a link on the home page in employments services to bring awareness to the program.
   5. *ACS National Meeting in New Orleans*, April 7-11 – LH is attending the National Meeting and will participate in Committee responsibilities.  LH informed the EC that the process of fund allotment to the local sections is changing. As indicated in a letter from the Chair of the Local Section Activities Committee, our allotment will remain about the same as compared to previous years. The ACS president is having an “open mic” discussion for councilors to bring forth ideas concerning how ACS may help chemists become more engaged in our profession as it grows into a more “global enterprise”.  LH also reported that annual dues are increasing to $154 based on the consumer price index.
   6. *Next PR Email* – timing and content of newsletter or email announcement, combined with Facebook and website updates  – Content will include a short report on Al Hazari’s presentation and the science café by JE written by LH, announcement of the Awards Ceremony, request for Outstanding Teacher Nominations, Councilor report from ACS National Meeting by LH, announcement of Earth Day activities and call for volunteers, and announcement of receipt of Climate Change award.  Deadline for newsletter submission is April 12th to DB.
7. **Additions**
   1. Annette Hoppenworth communicated with LH that our Kalamazoo Valley Museum planning should be underway in July for 2013 National Chemistry Week (Theme:  Energy: Now and Forever!)

Next meeting Wednesday 8 May