---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: 18:40
author: Carolyn Pugh
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Joel Coburn (JC), Lydia Hines (LH), Alia Hinz (AH),
	   Brianna Hyder (BH), John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Doug Williams (DW), Maren Zanotti (MZ)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. *Review of December 2012 Minutes* – Minutes were approved by the Executive Committee (EC).
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. Treasurers Report - JM distributed the monthly treasurer report and noted that there are no outstanding checks and the AAAS donation for Dance Event is still pending. The ACS Fall Tour Speaker expenses need to be submitted which is approximately $400. Upcoming expenses include the February Science Café and John Engelmann’s (chair-elect) expenses for the ACS Leadership Conference. ES informed that copy expensesfor 2012 KACS business still need to be submitted by ES, which will be carried over into the 2013 budget. JM has started to upload 2012 financial information in FORMS so that ES can submit the annual report. Treasurer’s report was approved by the EC.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* – JM distributed a report regarding the investment fund. No activity to report.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Web site report* – No report. In December ES posted the newsletter on the website.
   2. *Facebook Page* – No report.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – No report
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – MZ reported that students have been on holiday break. In December, MZ and Kevin Heinze performed demonstrations at Comstock Middle School. LH and MZ mentioned that WMU chemistry students still continue to collect pop can tabs for Ronald McDonald House charity.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – No report.
   4. *NOBCChE* – No report.
5. **Event / Activity Planning**
FYI: ACS Leadership Conference is Jan 25-27; K-College, WMU and KVCC return Jan; K-College Spring Break March 20-31; KPS Spring Break Mar 29-Apr 7
   1. Leadership Conference – John Engelmann is registered.
   2. DW will organize a special meeting in January to discuss bylaws and mission statement.
   3. January “Boost Your Career” event at WMU is tentatively scheduled for Tuesday, January 29. It will start at 5:00 pm, followed by a reception. LH contacted ACS about presentations regarding careers. Six 4-hour modules are available from ACS but not feasible for our event. ES will approach Sherine Obare, inorganic professor at WMU, and John Wendt, Pfizer chemist, about feedback for the event. LH has ACS materials that can be distributed. JC will contact someone from HR at Pfizer and also recommended Robert Stevenson (www.rstevensonconsulting.com), who speaks about working in various environments with a chemistry degree. He will gather more information and get back to ES. This event is open to both graduate and undergraduate students and interaction and networking of students with presenters will be highly encouraged.
   4. February Science Café – Tentative date is February 27th at Martini’s and JE will be presenting.
   5. Chemistry Demonstrations by Al Hazari (AH) – LH contacted AH and he is available for an event March 25-29. She will contact him to agree on a date. LH also read a brief description as to what the presentation involves. This event will possibly be coordinated with other local sections. Kalamazoo Public Library is a potential venue for this event. It was suggested that JE help organize this event.
   6. Chemistry and Culture: Food and Cooking – Potential event will take place mid-April. JM suggested the event take place at the Can Do Kitchen. DW will look into reserving the kitchen.
6. **Old Business**
   1. Online “volunteer” document – DW and LH are revising the online volunteer document.
   2. KACS elections – Officer forms were submitted by CP. The remaining portion of the form will be submitted by the end of the month.
7. **New Business**
   1. ES will contact James Kiddle about possibly attending the next EC meeting to discuss of identifying outstanding high school teachers.
   2. Do-Dah Parade, June 2013 – ES discussed the possibility of having KACS participate in the annual Kalamazoo Do-Dah Parade. LH said that KACS tried in the past but the application was denied. JC will look into KACS applying again.
   3. Earth Day – LH was asked by National ACS if she continues to be the coordinator for this year’s Chemist’s Celebrate Earth Day (CCED) event. She invited others to assume this responsibility. MZ volunteered to become the CCED coordinator. LH and MZ will meet to discuss details. Advertising to teachers for the annual poster contest will need to occur prior to the event. In the past, this event has taken place at the Kalamazoo Nature Center, but the EC encouraged MZ to explore other ideas.
   4. Next Newsletter / PR Email – Content for the newsletter includes: “Boost Your Career” event, ChemAble grants, 2012 highlights and photos from the dance and Bell’s event. Newsletter deadline for submissions is January 16with a proposed publication of January 21-23. Email content to ACSkzoo@gmail.com.
   5. Next meeting was tentatively set for Tuesday, February 5.
8. **Around the table** - LH reported on the ACS Comment by the Chair of the ACS Council Committee on Public Relations and Communications, Cheryl Frech, found on p. 55 of the December 10 issue of in C&ENews, in which a Three Rivers resident is quoted about her appreciation for our Section’s National Chemistry Week Chemistry Day at the Museum/Library 24 years ago and its impact on her daughter as well as the neighborhood children. The author stated that it was a great event for her daughter to attend.