---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:38"
author: Carolyn Pugh
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Josh Abbott (JA), Harry Chanzu (HC), John Engelmann (JE),
	   Lydia Hines (LH), Alia Hinz (AH), Sarut Jianrattanasawat (SJ),
	   John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP), Elke Schoffers (ES),
	   Tom Smith (TS), Douglas Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. *Review of “May minutes”* – Meeting minutes were approved by the Executive Committee (EC). 
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* - JM distributed the Treasurer’s Report and highlights included: income from ACS from local section dues were received and $500 from the Pfizer grant for the Bell’s poster session last December was carried over into this year.  JM indicated that Project SEED expenses were not finalized.  The report was approved by the EC.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account update* – JM reported that investments decreased slightly.
   3. *Regional Meeting Planning Conference Support* - A conference is being held November 1-3 in Washington DC to educate members on planning Regional Meetings.  KACS will provide funds (~$1000) to send three representatives to the course.  Costs include a $275/person registration fee and travel expenses.  James Kiddle and JM will attend the conference.
   4. *Review of Student Group Support* – The EC communicated to the ACS-affiliated student group representatives that funds are available for student group activities.  JM requested that a brief description of event, overall budget and allocation of funds be submitted to the EC about a month prior to the event.  If approved by the EC, the student groups should provide a report of event, receipts for reimbursement and, if available, photographs.  KACS reserves $300 per year for activity support for each ACS-affiliated student group.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Web site report* – No official report from Dave Bolliet (DB). Two email communications were sent out announcing the May newsletter, Awards Ceremony, CGSA picnic and a new link to a publication by Dow regarding safety practices
   2. *Facebook page* – ES reported that relevant stories and events are published on page and encouraged new student group representatives to like the site to increase readership.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – JA reported that approximately 80 chemistry and biology students participated in Dow B Que.  Forensics Day did not take place due to unavailability of a local teacher.   JA announced that this is his last meeting as he is graduating this month.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – No report
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.* – AH communicated details regarding the CGSA picnic on June 7th from 4-7pm.  She thanked the EC for providing funding for the pavilion reservation.
   4. *NOBCChE* – HC, vice president of NOBCChE, reported that no upcoming events are planned.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *Special meeting to discuss bylaws and mission statement* – EC will meet at Lydia Hines’ house on Saturday June 8th.
   2. *Review of awards ceremony and PR* – LH distributed reports for Awards Ceremony and Science Symposium to EC.  She reported that both programs were a success.  At the Awards Ceremony monetary and certificate awards were presented to high school and college students.  The Outstanding high school teacher award went to Plainwell High School’s Chemistry teacher.  Past-chair Pins were presented to three past chairs of our Local Section, including ES. Two of our Section’s eligible fifty-year members were present and received certificates supplied by the National Office. A Section Award was given to Robin Lenkart for helping with educational activities in the past few years.
   3. *2015 Joint Great Lakes & Central Regional meeting* – LH reported that potential dates include May 13-15 or 20-22, 2015.  KACS (Great Lakes Region) is co-hosting the meeting with the Western Michigan section (Central Region) in Grand Rapids.  A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has not been signed and discussion of how the profits and losses will be divided (potentially 60/40 split) among the Regions.  In addition to the General, Program and the Exhibits/Fundraising co-chairs, Publicity and Awards Chairs need to be provided by the KACS. The National ACS has not responded as to whether dates are open.  Preference was expressed for the May 13-15 date.
   4. *Education Committee: Future Teacher Award Nominations* (all) – ES reported to the committee that 7 applications were received and two favorable applicants were identified. One applicant was chosen for the award and the other candidates’ applications will kept for 5 years for future consideration.  A teacher can be nominated when a regional meeting takes place and potential awardees will be identified for 2015.
   5. *Updated member information* (LH) – Dave Bolliet gave LH 27 email addresses that bounce back when email communications are sent out.  LH read names off list to EC to see if any of the members recognized names; ES and JM offered to look into 2 of the names.
6. **New Business**
   1. *KACS volunteers* are needed for: Chemistry Day, Webmaster, Photographers (ES, LH)
      1. LH has not received inquiries on volunteers for Chemistry Day.  The student groups will communicate the need for volunteers.  DB will send an email to members asking for volunteers.
      2. Webmaster – ES has identified an individual interested who is not affiliated with WMU.  In such a case a different web host, new domain name and yearly fee would become necessary.  ES will explore specifics.
      3. Photographer – ES asked students to take photos at events for the archive and to use in KACS advertisement.  A volunteer photographer for CGSA picnic has been selected.
   2. *Chemistry & Culture: Food* (DW, ES) – ES distributed report from the meeting with members from Kalsec and DW.  Most attendees were flavor/food chemists and a list of ideas was generated.  A potential venue is Bell’s Eccentric Café.  Space is available for cooking demos, seating and tables for up to 120 participants. The event could include a keynote speaker.
   3. *Fall event schedule and funding* (all) – ES suggested that the two Fall Chemistry & Culture events she has planned [Food event and Dance event] would require a ca $1000 contribution each from KACS.  ES will try and raise money for these events through fundraising.  Kalsec would provide some support for the food event.  JM stated that funding both events from KACS funds is not in the operating budget.  The EC agreed that planning the food event will proceed and funding for the dance event will be dependent on fundraising.
   4. *Dates* – a calendar was distributed and the following (tentative) dates were proposed / assigned:
      - Sep. 17 (T) or 18 (W) – Science Café  (horticultural chemistry)
      - Oct. 12 (Sat) – Chemistry Day at the museum
      - Oct. 22 (T during National Chemistry Week) – Chemistry & Culture: Food
      - Nov. 9 (Sat) – Chemistry & Culture: Dance
      - Dec. 3 (T) or 4 (W) – Bell’s poster event
   5. *Next PR Email* – Timing and content of newsletter or email announcement, combined with Facebook and website updates (all) – Content will include reports from the Awards ceremony and HS Science symposium, Dow B Que and CGSA picnic, a request for volunteers for Chemistry Day, and a call for volunteers for Publicity and Awards Chairs for Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional Meeting. JA will find pictures to include in the Dow B Que report.

Next meeting will take place on Wednesday, August 7th.
