---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:36"
category: minutes
author: Carolyn Pugh
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Amanda Bolles (AB), David Bolliet (DB), John Engelmann (JE),
	   Megan Grunert (MG), Lydia Hines (LH), John Miller (JM),
	   Carolyn Pugh (CP), Elke Schoffers (ES), Sarut Jianratanasawatt (SJ),
	   Doug Williams (DW), Mark Wolf (MW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. *Review of October Minutes* (CP) – DB indicated an error in the October meeting minutes.  Minutes were approved by the Executive Committee (EC) with correction. 
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* - JM distributed report to EC and indicated that $2500 was raised through the efforts of ES for the dance event; VWR contributed money but was not included in this amount. Dr. Alfred Bader, founder of Sigma Aldrich, personally donated money for this event. JM indicated that $528 remained from the Bell’s poster event sponsored by Zoetis.  Zoetis communicated that they would like to be a sponsor of the 2014 poster event. WMU Foundation is releasing funds to cover SEED expenses.  JM indicated that some funds would be liquidated in support of the Regional meeting as these funds are not in the budget.
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* – JM reported that investments have slightly increased.
   3. *Budget* – JM distributed a proposed budget based on this year and 2012 expenses. Income is approximately $20,000 and the budget is lower versus actual expenses. The difference in the budgeted money versus actual expenses, overages will be carried forward into the next year. Monies allocated for administration expenses are low, due to electronic communications. Administrative expenses for 2014 will need to increase slightly due to money needed for web hosting and domain name maintenance. Other budgetary items include money for student affiliates groups and councilor travel expenses. EC members should suggest any changes in the budget by next month’s meeting. JM suggested the amounts of the student awards should be adjusted for tax purposes.
3. **Communications Chair** (DB)
   1. *Facebook Page Report* – DB reported that the KACS has 60 likes on the Facebook page and encourages others who like the page to share posts made on the page. 
   2. *Web site report* – MW distributed report that indicated the website had 205 unique visitors. An increase in traffic coincided with the Bells poster event and the dance event.  MW reported that there is not much website traffic when newsletters are distributed and suggested that in addition to a pdf version of the newsletter, a html version will be published and available on the webpage.
   3. *Top Five Priorities for KalamazooACS.org* – MW suggested moving the menu bar to the top of page with a drop down menu that would include events, newsletters and contacts (current officers, student organizations). No more than 10 headers/tabs across the top of the page. Other suggestions for headers/tabs include student chapters, other links, about us (i.e. where members are employed), ACS links, archives, jobs page, application of membership along with a list of membership benefits. A “join us” button will also be included on the home page.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (AB) – AB communicated that the Chemistry Club organized a mole day event in which students socialized and met with current Chem Club members. Activities included jokes and facts about the mole. As a result of the event five new members joined, increasing the membership to 44. AB submitted a report and will send pictures from the event to ES.
   2. *WMU Chem Club (MZ)* – No report.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – SJ reported that a potluck for Thanksgiving sponsored by CGSA would take place on November 25th.  The student association may ask for some funds from the ACS for this event.
   4. *NOBCChE* (HC) – no report.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional meeting* (LH), with a report from the workshop in DC (JM) – LH communicated that the organizing committee meeting went well and the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed. Awards chairs from both sections are still needed. A $5000 grant from Great Lakes Region will be used for the Regional meeting. Contributions (grant vs. loan) from the KACS will be discussed at the next meeting.
   2. *Workshop report from DC* – JM, James Kiddle, Neal Fox and Mark Thompson from the co-hosting JGLCRM sections attended this workshop. The meeting will be held at the Amway Grand in Grand Rapids. A potential date for the meeting is May 27-30, 2015.
   3. *KACS election* (All) – A bio statement is needed from Angela Willson; CP will draft an email, which includes a Survey Monkey link for voting, and send to DB and he will email to all current members. Results need to be reported to National ACS by December 1st.
   4. *Webhosting Update* (MW) – MW volunteered to be the webmaster for the regional meeting. 
   5. *Climate Change Grant* (JM) – JM updated EC on the dates as they were pushed back to January and February 2014 (Jan 25th – faith communities at WMU; Feb 1st boy/girl scouts; Feb 22 – teachers).
6. **New Business**
   1. *Past Events* (All)
      1. Oct. 8 - Zoetis Poster Session (Bell’s), deadline was October 3rd to email denis.billen@zoetis.com - 90 people attended the event. Members that were present commented that the speaker did not have much of a connection to science.
      2. Oct. 12 - Chemistry Day at the Museum (“Energy: Now and Forever!”) National Chemistry week took place October 20-26) – LH reported that the event was well attended and there were many volunteers. A report was sent to the National ACS.
      3. Nov. 1 - Chemistry & Culture: Dance (KIA) – ES reported that the event was well attended; 215 people attended (179 last year). Bobby Hopewell, mayor of Kalamazoo, attended the event as well. SJ helped in catering the event.
      4. January 2014 - Chemistry & Culture: Food (Bell’s) – Event will take place 2nd or 3rd week of January, preferably on a Wednesday. ES will work with volunteers and help with organizing the event.
   2. *Next PR Email* – timing and content of newsletter or email announcement, combined with Facebook and website updates (all) – Content of the newsletter will include: Climate Change event dates, ACS fall meeting report, election results, dance event report, Kalamazoo College Mole Day event and CGSA Thanksgiving potluck. All content should be given to DB by November 30th with distribution December 9th or 10th.
7. **Additions** (Anything for parking lot?) Detroit section would like to collaborate for an event in April 2014 (JE)

The next EC meeting is scheduled for December 4th at 6:30 pm.