---
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:35"
category: minutes
author: Carolyn Pugh
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Harry Chanzu (HC), Brian Eklov (BE), John Engelmann (JE),
	   Lydia Hines (LH), John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Doug Williams (DW), Mark Wolf (MW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. *Review of November minutes* – November minutes need to be corrected and will be approved via email. ES will distribute corrected minutes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurers Report* - JM distributed report for November and a 2014 estimated budget. Transferred money ($1200) from the investment fund to checking account for expenses incurred for the Joint Regional planning meeting.  Other updates include the $1000 donation check from the WMU President’s office was cashed, the investment fund increased slightly in value, a few more outstanding checks have cleared and JM has contacted the two students that were awarded checks from the spring exams.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account* – Extra money remains from the dance event fundraising, the WMU Foundation will release money to cover expenses for Project SEED.
   3. The Executive Committee agreed upon the 2014 proposed budget distributed by JM last month, based on 2013 expenses, and JM will submit as the 2014 budget.  The committee also agreed on providing $2500 as a grant to the Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional Meeting treasury.  Since approximately $1250 has already been spent for expenses incurred for the Regional Meeting Planning Conference (see item 2a) it was agreed that LH will inform the Treasurer of the Joint Great Lakes Regional Meeting that he could request the remaining $1250 as a grant from the Kalamazoo Section for the JGLCRM.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Facebook page report* – MW reported 64 likes on the FB page.  DB has also posted videos.
   2. *Web site report* – MW distributed November’s website activity report.  The website had 112 visits with most traffic coming from Google searches.  The Elements of Dance event was one of the top- searched events for KACS.
   3. *Top 5 priorities for KalamazooACS.org* – MW has redesigned the website and it is now in the testing phase.  MW wants feedback from the EC on the new design.  Comments included having contact names (committee members) available for the student organization, LH questioned the appropriateness of use of the adapted-ACS logo for the website so she was charged (and agreed) to determine its “legality”; everyone liked the new organization/layout of the website.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – No report
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – No report
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.*  – No report
   4. *NOBCChE* – HC reported members participated in the CGSA Thanksgiving potluck, which was well attended.  An end-of-semester social took place at Skyzone two weeks ago.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional Meeting* – JM reported the planning workshop in DC went well.  JM and James Kiddle, Program Co-Chair, attended this workshop.  LH reported the dates for the regional meeting were set at May 27-30, 2015 in Grand Rapids at the Amway Grand Hotel.  These dates do not interfere with Summer ACS Board of Directors meeting.  Our Section’s Sherine Obare from WMU has agreed to serve as Awards Co-Chair for the Great Lakes Region.
   2. *KACS election* – CP reported that were 32 total votes cast in the most recent election, and the officer forms were sent to Cheryl Vockins at National ACS.  BE was elected as 2014 Chair-Elect and Angela Willson was elected as 2014-2015 Secretary.
   3. *Climate Change Grant* – JM reported that the first event is scheduled on Jan 25th, 2014. 
6. **New Business** – Events (All)
   1. *Update on January 2014 - Chemistry & Culture: Food* (Bell’s) – ES distributed a brief report on the planning meeting for this event.  Bell’s has been paid a $100 deposit for this event.  ES contacted Wyeth Flavors to gauge interest in this event.  DW will contact Jonathan Davis from Great Lakes Flavors.  Ideas for the event include having several caterers from outside restaurants, having different stations combining chemistry and cooking, engaging student groups, a brochure to take home with recipes and contacting Celestial Seasonings.  LH suggested contacting Sarah Risch for giving a presentation on food chemistry.  JM suggested the event title of “Sense-ational.”
   2. *Next PR Email* – The next PR email will be distributed on December 9th.  Content will include elections; a dance report; LH will provide an update on the Joint Regional Meeting, and will submit a report on K College’s Mole Day; chair elect comments from JE and MW will replace “Message from Chair” from ES to JE.
   3. JE was welcomed as the new chair.

The next meeting will take place Wednesday 15 January 2014 at 18:30.
