---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: 18:37
category: minutes
author: Carolyn Pugh
layout: minutes
roll-call: [John Engelmann (JE), Megan Gunert (MG), Lydia Hines (LH),
	   Sarut Jianrattanasawat (SJ), John Miller (JB), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Tom Smith (TS), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Mark Wolf (MW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** – DW documented September 2013 minutes. EC approved the minutes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – JM distributed report and EC approved. Spending is going according to the plan budget, ACS new member commission money and final portion of Project SEED money was received, KIA deposit for dance event was paid and the grant money for the Science Café was received.  JM asked that budgetary needs for 2014 be prepared in order to discuss at next month’s meeting.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account* – Investments have slightly increased. Only two outstanding checks remain from the high school students awards.
   3. *Regional Meeting Planning Conference support* – JM and James Kiddle (JK) both have registered for conference. JM has purchased airplane ticket and JK still needs to purchase.
3. **Communications Chair**
   1. *Web site report* – MW distributed website report. He has updated the KACS website and ES suggested that the EC members give MW feedback regarding the website. The highest amount of visits corresponded to the Science Café in September.  MW asked the EC to determine the five most important functions on the website and these will be discussed at the next meeting.
   2. *Facebook page report* – ES posts upcoming events on the Facebook page.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – TS reported that the students have had two meetings since classes resumed. The Chem Club students are planning on volunteering for Chemistry Day at the museum.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* – no report. Students had a meeting scheduled today.
   3. *WMU CGSA* – SJ reported the organization is looking to recruit more student members.
   4. *NOBCChE* – No report. Students are in Indianapolis for a meeting. Students need to contact LH for Chemistry Day at the museum in order to communicate their needs for demonstrations they are planning.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Great Lakes and Central Joint Regional Meeting* – LH reported that a planning meeting will take place on October 19th in Grand Rapids. A memorandum of understanding has not been signed yet. Members from KACS attended a breakfast at the ACS meeting in Indianapolis in September regarding planning regional meetings.
   2. *KACS Elections* – LH was successful in recruiting two candidates for Chair-Elect and Secretary. The Chair Elect candidate is Brian Eklov from Kalexsyn, and Angela Willson, a graduate student at WMU, is the Secretary candidate. CP will prepare the ballots through Survey Monkey and ES will obtain biographies from each candidate. JE will work on getting the roster of current members for voting purposes.
   3. *Webhosting Update* – MW reported that webhosting expenses include the domain name at $12 per year and webhosting at $60 per year.
   4. *Climate Change Grant* – JM reported that the first meeting with the faith communities will take place on November 23rd. The middle and high school teachers as well as the scout leader meetings will take place in February 2014, date TBD. The program consists of 4 to 5 one-hour modules for each training session. This program will provide SCECH (State Continuing Education Clock Hours) for middle and high school teachers through WMU.
6. **New Business**
   1. *ChemAble Grant* – This grant was established in 2009 to aid in helping cover the costs of continuing education opportunities for members and/or students. JM stated that there have been no inquiries into this grant. EC suggested different advertising such as the newsletter, Bell’s poster session, other online venues and the website. MW suggested providing keywords for internet searches through the webhost that would direct searches to the ChemAble grant.
   2. *Science Café, Horticultural Chemistry* – September 17th event at Wedel’s had 35 people in attendance. ES will draft a report for the newsletter.
   3. *Upcoming Events*
      1. Zoetis Poster Session, October 8th, Bells – Event will take place from 5-9 pm. Do not have to be an ACS member to attend. A high school teacher from IN, now teaching in the Portage Public Schools, will be presenting a poster. All abstracts should be submitted as soon as possible. Advertisement has been done through MLive.
      2. Bill McKibben, October 10th at WMU – McKibben is an activist and journalist that will give a presentation on climate change. This is not an ACS event. It is free but registration is required.
      3. Chemistry Day at the Museum, October 12th – LH is coordinating event at the Kalamazoo Valley Museum from 12-4 pm. There are many activities planned. Batteries will be collected at the event and properly disposed. This event will be announced in the newsletter.
      4. Chemistry and Culture, Dance Event, November 1st – Event will take place at the KIA from 7-10 pm. The theme for the event is Chemistry and Movement and connecting atoms and molecules to exercise science and a display will be placed in the lobby.  The same logo from last year will be used for the tee shirts. In kind donations for this event include a West Hills and Bronson Athletic club memberships. A “snowball mixer” with a showcase dance with ES and Mayor Bobby Hopewell could take place.
      5. Chemistry and Culture Food Event – Date to be determined; potentially January 2014.

   4. *PR Email* – Deadline for content for email is October 13th with email to be sent out on October 18th. Content will include: upcoming events, biographies of Chair Elect and Secretary for 2013 elections, reports on Science Café event on horticultural chemistry at Wedel’s, on Chemistry Day at the Museum, on the CGSA ice cream social, the Councilor report from the Fall National ACS meeting, and a picture of LH’s plaque for 30 years of service to the ACS as councilor from the KACS.

7. **Miscellaneous**
LH has located all but 7 members do not have up
to date email addresses on the Section roster. She is stopping! Amy
Oliver, STEM coordinator in Allegan, contacted LH and is interested in
coordinating with KACS ACS Leadership institute will take place
January 24-26, 2014 in Dallas, TX. The ACS Board of Directors has
approved funding for a new ACS initiative, the establishment of a
National Association of Chemistry Teachers. CGSA will be having a
potluck the week of Thanksgiving; exact date to be determined.

Next Meeting will take place November 6th at 6:30 pm at Hunan Gardens.
