---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:35"
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [John Engelmann (JE), Lydia Hines (LH), James Kiddle (JK),
	   Noah Masika (NM), John Miller (JM), Carolyn Pugh (CP),
	   Elke Schoffers (ES), Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
   1. *Review of February minutes* (DW) – Minutes were approved by Executive Committee.
2. **Treasurer’s Report (JM)**
  1. *Treasurers Report* - JM reported low activity during the month of
February. The President’s Challenge to recruit new members generated
$60. ES recruited 4 new members and LH recruited 2 new
members. Expenses for reimbursement include JE for the Leadership
Conference and ES from “Boost Your Career” event.
  2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* – JM reported low activity and informed the EC that 
it is not known when the Local Section allotment funds from ACS are expected to be distributed. 
Upcoming expenses include Project SEED, LH travel expenses to National ACS Meeting and a Nature 
Center table rental for Earth Day.
3. **Communications Chair (DW)**
  1. *Web site report* – DW distributed a report from David Bolliet (DB). Website activity has been low
and the newsletter only generated 11 visits. DW reported that DB is receiving error messages from 
email communications due to member contact information not being current. ES asked DB to 
generate a list of members that have emails bouncing back and members will be contacted via 
another method to update or remove contact information.
  2. *Facebook page* – Generating approximately 15 visits per day. DB posts events and related
information to the page and notifications are sent to people who have “liked” the page. 
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
  1. *Kalamazoo College* (TS) – Student organization helped organize the Science Café in February. 
  2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – Brianna Hyder informed ES that the Chem Club was participating in a demo event today.
  3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* (AH) – No report.
  4. *NOBCChE* (NM) – NM representing NOBCChE reported that two
professional development programs will take place for undergraduate
and graduate students. A speaker will present on graduate school
application process and industry opportunities after graduation for
undergraduates.  A speaker for the graduate students will present on
post-doc opportunities. KACS will announce this public event, which
will take place within the next two weeks. Clara Adams is currently
seeking a speaker and NM will communicate details to ES.
5. **Old Business**
  1. Special meeting to discuss bylaws and mission statement (JE) – JE will call 
everyone during spring to schedule a meeting.
  2. Review of February Science Café at K-College on Wednesday, Feb 20, (ES)
– ES reported the event went well. Attendance was 23 people and ES thanked JE
for a great presentation.
  3. Preview of March Presenter Al Hazari on Tue, Mar 26, 5-7 pm (LH) – Al
Hazari is presenting “Chemistry in Comics” at WMU. LH distributed information to K-12 teachers in the area and Brad Portis (Gull Lake High School) has 
recommended it to his students. She also sent information to MLive/Kalamazoo
Gazette. Pizza will be provided and ES is going to make a flyer for distribution. 
Area science educators can potentially visit with Al during his visit to Kalamazoo. 
  4. Do-Dah Parade (JC) – postpone to April meeting.
  5. 2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional meeting (LH) – LH reported that
she has not received feedback from the co-hosting West Michigan Local Section
(Central Region). She will contact that Section’s councilor(s), Mark Thomson, at 
the national meeting. To date two KACS members have volunteered to be Program
Co-Chair and Exhibits Co-Chair. In order for the meeting to take place, the major 
details (i.e. location, dates) will need to be determined by the end of 2013.
6. **New Business**
  1. Education Committee Update
    1. Identification of outstanding HS teachers (JK) – There are
currently 37 HS chemistry teachers in the area. JK reported that the
current process for identifying teachers is not straightforward.
Teachers are nominated by their principal and fill out paperwork to
be considered for the award. Nominations from principals are not
an issue and the same teachers are re-nominated every year. The
combined paperwork takes up 5 pages for the instructions and
questionnaire and appears to be a major stumbling block. The form
was created years ago by the Education Committee and needs to be
updated and streamlined. ES will draft a one-page application form
and teachers can potentially nominate themselves and submit a letter
of recommendation from the principal with their application. ES
will contact Don Schreiber for copies of the current nomination
materials and process.
    2. Awards Reception and Project SEED update (JK, LH, ES) – The
Science Symposium will take place on Tuesday, April 30th at WMU.
Awards reception will take place on Monday, May 20th at WMU.
    3. ES received project SEED and chemistry Olympiad information;
both should be forwarded to the Education Committee
  2. Climate Change Grant Application titled “KACS / WMU Climate Science
Collaboration for the Training of Community Leaders” (ES) – ACS President
Shakhashiri created a grant program regarding climate science. ES distributed a
proposal that was submitted and drafted by members of the EC and members of the
“WMU Interdisciplinary Climate Change Study Group”. JM summarized that the
proposal will provide information to people involved with outreach in various
communities. Faith communities, Boy and Girl Scouts and high school and middle
school teachers are targeted. Half-day workshops will take place for each group
and a tool kit will be provided as well as demonstrations on how to use the materials in the kit. A meeting 6 months after the initial meeting will take place to 
assess the process. The budget is approximately $3000.
  3. Chemists Celebrate Earth Day (MZ) – no report
  4. F.O.R.M.S. Annual Report, Event Reports, Comment Forms (ES) – ES and
LH submitted the Annual Report in time.
  5. Manuscript to “Nachrichten aus der Chemie” (ES) – Authored by ES and
submitted with an April publishing date. The dance event combining chemistry
and culture was the topic of the paper.
  6. Next PR Email – timing and content of newsletter or email announcement TBD,
combined with Facebook and website updates(all) – Announce Al Hazari’s talk,
Science Symposium date, Earth Day, reports from past events and an update on the 
Climate Change grant proposal.
  7. Next EC meeting: Wednesday, April 3rd
7. **Additions**
Currently, there is a Mini Science Café grant ($300) available through ACS and its 
application is due on Friday, March 22nd with a description of how funds would be spent. 
Possible topics include astrochemistry with the Kalamazoo’s astronomical society, a 
chemistry and cooking event in conjunction with Kalsec, or horticultural chemistry and the 
chemistry of the color of flowers and flower breeding at a local garden store.
LH reported that a new formula is currently under consideration for allocating Local 
Section funds. With 458 members KACS is classified as a medium-small section. 
An Earth Day Concert is scheduled for April 20, Saturday, at the Oshtemo Branch of the 
Kalamazoo Public Library. LH has offered to display CCED materials at that venue. We 
wait for a response from the Library staff.