---
location: Hunan Gardens
time: "18:37"
author: Carolyn Pugh
category: minutes
layout: minutes
roll-call: [Amanda Bolles (AB), John Engelmann (JE), Kevin Heinze (KH), Lydia Hines (LH), Sarut Jianrattanasawat (SJ), Carolyn Pugh (CP), Elke Schoeffers (ES), Tom Smith (TS), Doug Williams (DW), Mark Wolf (MW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** (EC)
   1. *Review of* “June minutes” – Executive Committee (EC) approved June minutes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (ES)
   1. *Treasurers Report* - No report/update
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account* – No update
   3. *Regional Meeting Planning Conference Support* - No update
   4. *ChemLuminary request* – ES asked the EC for $100 in order to print a 4ft x 6ft poster displaying the activity that led to the nomination for the ChemLuminary award; the poster is to be shown at the awards reception in Indianapolis on September 10.  The EC approved this request as administrative costs are in the budget to cover this type of expense.
3. **Communications Chair** (ES)
   1. *Web site report* – Low activity other than the website activity announcing a few events, i.e. CGSA Picnic.  Dave Bolliet emailed LH the email addresses that bounced back after the last blast.
   2. *Facebook Page* – Currently there are 46 likes since the page was created on August 18th, 2011.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (TS and AB) – No report.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – The Chem Club signed up for Bronco Bash on Sept 13th, 3-7pm.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.* (SJ) – Ice cream social for graduate students, along with Chem Club, will take place. Date is uncertain.
   4. *NOBCChE* (NM) – No report.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *Updated mission statement* (JE) – Mission Statement was revised at an informal meeting.  ES posted the new mission statement on home page for KACS.
   2. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional Meeting* (LH) – The MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) between the local sections will be signed which will outline the distribution of expenses (gains and losses).  Each section will have a Program Co-chair, General Co-chair, Exhibits/Fundraising and Awards Co-chairs.  The KACS section is in need of an Awards Co-chair.  Dr. James Kiddle is the Program Co-hair representing the KACS section.  Three awards are given at the meeting: the High School Teacher Award, Diversity Award and Regional Volunteer Award.  Since the Great Lakes Region hosts a meeting every 2 years it is possible to present awards to 2 High School teachers in the Region in 2015. Meetings of the full Planning Committee have not yet been scheduled for event planning and LH stated that, if members have any ideas for the meeting, they are encouraged to share them with Dr. Kiddle or with Dr. Hines.  The meeting is to take place in Grand Rapids May 13-16, 2015.
   3. *Updated member information* (LH) – LH has narrowed the list of approximately 40 returned e-mails provided by DB to seven names.
6. **New Business**
   1. *KACS Section Report* (LH) – ES distributed a summary of the review of the KACS section’s activities by the Local Section Activities Committee (LSAC), which reviews all annual reports and writes a summary.  Ours was favorable!
   2. *KACS ChemLuminary Finalist Status* (ES) – ES distributed letter and an announcement of the ChemLuminary program at the fall National ACS Meeting. KACS is a finalist and anticipation builds as we get closer to the winner being announced.
   3. *KACS election procedure* (JE) – JE researched the bylaws in terms of elections and outlined what the EC needs to do in order to prepare for elections and the date in which tasks need to be completed.  Vacant positions include Chair Elect and Secretary.  ES will contact Donna Seibert to find out if she has interest in serving on the EC.
   4. *Personnel Updates* (ES, Education, SEED, Webmaster) – Megan Grunert (MG) is the new chair of education committee.  Don Schreiber will continue to be the chair of Project SEED. Mark Wolf, from Kalsec, will be the new Webmaster.
   5. *Webhosting Options* (ES and MW) – MW distributed options for webhosting, which included Amazon AWS, bighoss.biz, bluehoste.com, iPage.com and Godaddy.com.  Administrative fees for the first year would be approximately $100 and could potentially be funded from the KACS budget.  The EC agreed that a web host independent from WMU would provide more options and freedom for the website.  DB will talk with MW regarding specific email addresses.
   6. *Climate Change Grant* – No update
   7. *Science Café: Horticultural Chemistry at Wedel’s* – tentatively scheduled for September 17th at 6-8 pm with Dr. James (Gus) Guzinski.  Wedel’s charges approximately $20-50 for using their facility.
   8. *Chemistry Day at the Museum* (Saturday, October 12th; National Chemistry Week is October 20-26th) – MZ stated that volunteers from WMU ChemClub will be available for this event.
   9. *Chemistry & Culture:  Food* (Bell’s) – ES stated that planning is ongoing and we currently still need a speaker.
   10. *Chemistry & Culture: Dance* (KIA) – ES said that the event will most likely take place on a Friday night in November.
   11. *Zoetis Poster Session* (Bell’s) – Currently seeking a speaker for this event.
   12. *Council Agenda* (LH, including LH’s 30-year service) – LH informed the EC that ACS is losing members:  Student and international numbers are increasing while memberships for working professionals are decreasing.  Some sections are being phased out due low activity; and a discussion item at the Indianapolis Council Meeting will be to seek input from councilors as to how ACS can additionally help in the matter of job creation for chemists in the US. ACS wants to improve the climate for chemistry careers.
   13. *ACS Membership* (LH, dues and benefits) – LH reported that the Council has heard from members and many feel that dues are high for professionals.  ACS offers many benefits for professional members as well as student members.  Dues are competitive with other professional organizations.
   14. *Next PR Email* - timing and content of newsletter or email announcement, combined with Facebook and website updates (all) – Content for the next PR email is due by August 31st with the email communication to the membership to be sent by September 8th.  Upcoming events will be posted on the website and the Facebook page.  Suggested content includes: Project SEED report, Science Café announcement, Chemistry Day at Museum, CGSA ice cream social announcement, student group announcements, general statement about elections and the need for candidates, new webmaster and changes that have been implemented and introduction of the new chair of education.
   15. Next meeting will take place on Thursday, September 5th at 6:30 pm at Hunan Gardens.
7. **Additions?** (Anything for parking lot?)
   - A thank you note from a student at Portage and KAMSC was sent to DS thanking KACS for the Chemistry Award. 
