---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:36"
end-time: "20:16"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [John Engelmann (JE), Angela Willson (AW), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Harry Chanzu (HC), Brian Eklov (BE), Elke Schoffers (ES),
	   John Miller (JM), Lydia Hines (LH)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW)
   1. *Review of February 2014 minutes* – February minutes were approved.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – It is believed that we will come out with a positive balance on the climate change events grant, which should allow us to hold one additional event for educators.  We received a check from KALSEC for food event expenses and an inquiry will be made about a check from Waters for the same event.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* - As planned, some investments were liquidated to cover grant money for the 2015 Joint Regional meeting.  We also saw a gain in investments in February. Travel money has been reimbursed to BE and forwarded to LH for meetings.
3. **Communications Chair** (JE for DB/MW)
   1. *Facebook page report* (DB) – Facebook page is up to 74 Likes. A newsletter was issued on February 28. This is the first 2014 newsletter.
   2. *Web site report* (MW) – The February newsletter received 85 unique visitors creating the most traffic on the KACS website followed by the homepage.  Some coding problems were fixed to allow for better compatibility for Internet Explorer 8 users.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (LH for AB) – Amanda provided a report for the February newsletter about the success they had with the scent webinar attended by both K College and WMU students.  We were pleased to see this collaboration between the two colleges.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – No report.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc* (SJ) – No report.
   4. *NOBCChE* (HC) – In February members from the club did demonstrations for a group of 5th grade KPS students in an advanced program over three days.  The club is also planning a professional development seminar for graduating students to prepare for job searches (interviews, resumes, etc.).  HC will check with the ACS career office to see what information they have available for such seminars.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional meeting* (LH) – The committee had a second in- person meeting in Grand Rapids and the contracts were signed for the venues at the Amway Grand and Devos Place.  The theme has been set as “Chemistry: A Grand Enterprise” with focus on food, health and the environment.  Pens & fliers will be distributed by LH at the National ACS meeting in Dallas this month.
   2. *Climate Change Grant* – report on second event (of 3) on February 22 (JM) – This session was held for middle school and high school teachers who could receive continuing education credits.  It was overall well received and many great questions were asked by the teachers from around the area.  They were grateful for a number of materials to take back to their schools to use with their students.
   3. *CCED* – update on plans:  Illustrated Poster contest (LH), location(s) and volunteers (LH for MZ) – The event will be held at the Nature Center on April 26th.  The Oshtemo Library is holding their own event on April 19th and we have reached out to them with no response yet.  MZ will send a second call for volunteers in March’s newsletter for the event, which has the theme “The Wonder of Water”
   4. *Status of Competitive Exam* (LH for MG/JK) – The first exam has been given to 17/34 schools that responded to our request.  Then the top students will be invited to take a second exam in late April.  The awards ceremony will be held May 12th.  
   5. *Annual Report 2013 submission* (ES/LH) - This year’s report was submitted on time with a great deal of work from ES and LH and a financial report contributed by JM.  ES provided copies of the reports to the chair and chair-elect to assist them when their time to write the report comes.  We submitted information on 19 events, activities and meetings for 2013 and self nominated for three ChemLuminary Awards (one for Chemistry and Culture: Elements of Dance and two for Sustainable Science – Recycle a Poster).
6. **New Business**
   1. *Council* - National Meeting Items – we are now in voting District V (LH) – Items to be voted on at the National Meeting include raising dues $4 (to $158 in 2015), changing how funds are allocated for different sized Divisions and voting on establishing two new international chapters.  ACS has asked the councilors to offer input on the question “What can ACS do to improve science education in grades 7-12?”.  LH will present any input given by members of the Section at the meeting.
   2. *Olympiad Exam/NCO participation?* (LH/BE) – In the past we have given this exam, which is labor intensive due to a laboratory component and a strict time set by ACS.  However, LH has interest from a Mattawan school teacher who wondered why we no longer give this exam.  She has an interest in helping coordinate the exam; LH and BE will follow up with her and MG to see if there would be interest in offering this exam in future years.
   3. *Suggestion regarding Purchase/donation of ACS Study Guides*  (ES) – We were approached by an undergraduate chemistry major who has an interest in attending graduate school and believes the ACS Study Guide materials would be invaluable in studying for either chemistry subject entrance or placement exams for graduate school.  JM will order a copy for each college after talking to the libraries to insure interest on their parts.  Then we will let students know in a future PR email or newsletter that these materials are available.
   4. *Upcoming Events* (All):
      - CCED at KNC (April 26)/Library(April 19) (MZ) – As stated above, a call for volunteers will go out again in this month’s newsletter and the Library participation is not definite.
      - High School Science Symposium (LH for MG) – At this point no date has been set for this event.
      - Awards Gathering – late May (LH for MG) – The date has been set for May 12th.
      - Joint Picnic with CGSA (LH for SJ) – No date has been set at this point, but once it has BE or LH will be able to make reservations with the Oshtemo Parks
      - Science Café Ideas (JE) – The idea of doing a Science Café on safety was proposed, which was considered a good idea by all as a possible speaker event for students or professional scientists, but not as a Science Café for the general public.  BE mentioned that Aldrich may have speakers available from their safety service department for such an event.  JE will move forward with the idea of Art Conservation as a possible Science Café event by looking at the ACS speaker list.
   5. *Next PR Email* – No PR email is needed in the month of March.
   6. Send items for the March newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com by Monday March 24th.  The newsletter will be published later in that week, March 27th. Content: Chair’s comment (JE); Call for volunteers for CCED (MZ); repeat call for papers for JGLCRM (JK)?; Councilor’s Report from Dallas (LH); first announcement of Education Awards Gathering in May (MG/JK?)
   7. The next meeting will take place on Thursday April 3rd at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main