---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:35"
end-time: "19:21"
author: Angela Willson

roll-call: [Angela Willson (AW), Lydia Hines (LH), John Engelman (JE), Jennifer Furchak (JF), Brian Eklov (BE), Sarah Glass (SG), Elke Shoffers (ES), Andre Venter (AV)]
---

1. **Secretary's Report** (AW) - October minutes were approved except the addition of the social/website report
2. **Treasurer's Report** (AV for JM)
   1. *Treasurer's Report* - We have cleared some expenses from the Recycle a Poster event, including prize money and food.  We also have had some expenses from Science Café. AV will follow up with JM about May 2014 award winners and if they have been tracked down.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* - The Sceince Café stipend was paid form two accounts. There will be no new income until January.  We also have some upcoming expenss from the Climate Change Workshop and Leadership Conference. ES will follow up with Waters about upcoming income.
   3. *Budget Approval* - The printing and postage expense should be replaced with website domain as discussed in our previous meeting. With this correction the budget was approved.
3. **Communications Chair** (DB)
   1. *Facebook page report* (DB) - The Facebook page has reached 118 followers. An event was created for the Paul Anastas talk on November 24th
   2. *Website report* (MW) - The website had 216 users visiting the site. The front-page was the most popular (39% of pageviews) with the December newsletter being the second most popular (22% of pageviews). EC members with @gmail.com accounts have been added to the Google Analytics, which is used to track these hits for the website.  If anyone would like to be added to the analytics account, let MW know and he will gladly add you.
   3. *Newsletter Report* (DB) - The December newsletter was destributed on December 5th through email, website, and Facebook page. An email was also sent to users to promote the Harmon Lectureship by Paul Anastas on November 21st for the November 24th presentation.
4. **Western Michigna University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (SG, MB, JF) - As class is not in session there is not much that is new to report. In January, we will have the Battle of the Chem Clubs, detail to be determined
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) - No report
   3. *WMU Chemistry Graduate Student Assoc* (CGSA) (CB) - No report. However, we do know that they held their annual Thanksgiving pot-luck dinner.
   4. *NOBCChE* (CB) - No report
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional (JGLCRM) meeting*, May 27-30, Grand Rapids (LH) - Things are moving, but still slowly. A call for papers will be in C&EN magazine. Working on the registration form, so that registration may open on December 15th. There are still many loose ends due to some dysfuncitonal organization. The next phone conference is scheduled on 12/19.
   2. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event Plans* (JM) - No report in JM absence, but it is scheduled for 12/12 (tomorrow) in Rood Hall. There have been disappointingly few communciations for this event
   3. *KACS Logo consideration* - continued (ES/Carolyn Fink) - No report. More information in the upcoming year as ES will follow through
   4. *Results of election for Treasurer, Councilor/report to National ACS office* (AW) - Our new officer is Andre Venter, treasurer and our returning officer is Lydia Hines, councillor. Each received 38 votes through SurveyMonkey
   4. *Event hosted jointly with Huron Valley Section /Ann Arbor* (2015) (BE) - AV has agreed to meet with the group in Dallas during the Leadership meting. We have offered $750 of support for this event. More details to come.
   5. &New Officers' Conference* Dallas TX, January 23-25, 2015 - AV is registered for the conference, but is still working on a plane ticket.
   6. *Olympiad* - We have received no response from the interested Mattawan teacher and club (Jodi Tuls), so there is no new information about the desire to hold this event.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Thanks to outgoing officers* (All) - It has been another great year. We will miss ES at all of the usual meetings after all of her leadership to the section, but we will still see her occasionally. BE is ready to write his first comments as chair and we welcomed AV to the EC board.
   2. Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions.  Send items for the newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com send by Dec. 28 for January 5  publication
      - Chair's inaugural comment (BE)
      - ongoing call for actual help with planning JGLCRM (LH)
      - report on 3rd Climate Change workshop (JM)
      - student group summaries and highlights
      - welcome new and re-elected officers
      - year past and year ahead
   3. The next meeting will take place on Wedneday, January 7th at 6:30 pm at Hunan Gardens on W.     Main

7. **Around the Table**
   1. DB has suggested that we get 11 oz ceramic mugs with the KACS logo to sell at cost to act as merchandise
   2. AV agreed to present poster for Chemluminery award at Dallas and bring handout of activities. This handout will also be useful for the report and more. ES will advise on the presentation.
