---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:43"
end-time: "20:04"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [Jennifer Furchak (JF), Angela Willson (AW), John Engelmann (JE),
            Elke Schoffers (ES), Lydia Hines (LH), John Miller (JM)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report (AW)**
   1. Review of May 2014 notes – Notes were approved
2. **Treasurer’s Report (JM)**
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – May was a busy month as always!  We have received most of our revenue for the year from ACS allotment and local dues, a nanogrant for the art talk and reimbursement for councilor travel costs.  Our major expenses in May included the Awards gathering (including refreshments, awards and a gift card for Robin in the WMU Chem Department), an advance for the CGSA picnic and reimbursement for the DowBQ event at K-College.
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* – We have seen a gain on investments at 1-2% per month, as expected.  We are still awaiting money from Zoetis and Waters.  Expected upcoming expenses include money for SEED students and table rental for CCED.
3. **Communications Chair (DB)**
   1. *Facebook page report* – Our page now has 77 likes.  Posts are seen the most when someone is tagged or a post is shared.
   2. *Web site report* (MW) – No new report.
   3. *Newsletter Report* (DB) – June newsletter was sent out on June 1st.  An email was sent to the membership, which included 361 people.  Four email address are bouncing back.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (AB, SG) – DowBQ was a great success and there will be a report and pictures in the August newsletter, as the event happened after the June newsletter was published.
   2. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* (SJ) – No report.  Picnic on Friday, June 6th from 5-8pm at the Oshtemo park on West Main.  Everyone is invited to attend.
   3. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – No report.
   4. *NOBCChE* (CB) – No report.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional meeting* (LH). – Conference calls have been happening to make progress on the event, but even more will happen on June 14th at a face-to-face meeting to discuss logistics like cost, programs, publicity, etc.  We are officially less than 12 months until the event, which will happen May 27th – May 30th, 2015
   2. *Status of ACS Study Guide purchase/placement* (JM) – The study guides have been delivered to WMU and K Libraries; there was a report in the June newsletter.  We have received thank you notes from the WMU library and a student from the college.  It was recommended by ES that we may want to add a “Resources” tab to the KACS website to publicize the access students have to these study guides.  JF and ES also agreed to contact their school department websites to publicize the study guides and link to our website.
   3. *Status of CGSA Picnic* – June 6 (SJ) – See item 4b for more information.
   4. *Project SEED* – (LH for DS) – 2 “summer-I” students; they will begin June 16th.  One student is a Junior from Comstock High School and the other is a Senior from Loy Norrix High School.  The reception for SEED will happen with the HHMI reception in early August.  The specifics will be published in the August newsletter.  Mentors are R. Guda and G. Mezei at WMU.
   5. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* – Sept. (JM) – There will be an invitation for members who would like to attend, in the August newsletter.  The event will be happening this September.
   6. *Speaker* - Safety (Ken Fivizzani, W, Sept. 23, 6 pm) – We have tentatively booked the lecture hall at K-College for the event.  The speaker will include topics like personal liability in his talk. JF will keep an eye on the class schedule for the fall to make sure no classes interfere with the lecture.  JF agreed to organize refreshments for the event with a maximum budget of $100.
   7. *Science Café on Art and Art conservation* – Jim E – JE will communicate with Jim about holding the event on October 21, 22, or 23 (Tues, Wed, Thurs respectively).  We are hoping for October 23rd (Mole Day).  We brainstormed that the Richmond Center at WMU may be the best venue for the event; availability will be explored.
   8. *Recycle a Poster* – Nov-Dec? @Bell’s (ES) – It was discussed if we should continue to have a key- note speaker or if we should change the format to include research presentations by students (undergraduate and graduate).  It was decided that we will have abstracts submitted by students – there will be an announcement in the August newsletter - and we will hold a poster and presentation contest at the event.
   9. *High School Science Symposium* (MG) – JE will reach out to MG for an update on plans.  Possibility of holding event in the fall.
   10. *NCW* – Chemistry Day at the Museum – October 11 (LH) – First call for volunteers will happen in the August newsletter.  This year’s theme is “The Sweet Side of Chemistry: Candy”
   11. *Discussion on Competitive Exam $ prizes* (All) – Awards above $600 require 1099MISC forms for taxes.  For this year, 3 students are in this situation and JM will track them down for W9 and tax information.  In the future we will lower the first-place award to $599 to avoid this scenario.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Congratulatory initial announcement* (ES) – From the annual report for 2013 we were able to self nominate for 4 ChemLuminary Awards.  We found out that we have become finalists for 3 of the awards including: Outstanding Local Section Industry Event (for the Recycle a Poster event), Outstanding Performance by a Local Section (Medium Size), Outstanding Public Relations Program by a Local Section (for the Dance event)
   2. *Upcoming Events* (All):
      - Event hosted jointly with Huron Valley Section /Ann Arbor (2015) – (BE) – No report.
	  - Olympiad/NCO participation (LH/MG) – Increased interest from Dr. Obare and continued        interest from others.  No new information, but it is still in the future picture.
   3. *Next PR Email* – No need for a PR email in June/July.
   4. *Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions*.  Send items for the newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com by Monday, July 21st for August 1 publication
      - Chair’s comment (JE)
	  - repeat call for papers for JGLCRM (JK)
	  - Report on June Picnic (SJ)
	  - Call for volunteers for Chemistry Day at the Museum (LH)
	  - Invitation to Project SEED Reception – date, time, location (DS)
	  - Invitation to participate in Sept. Climate Change event (JM)
	  - announce/publicize Sept. Safety presentation (LH)
	  - announce/publicize Science Café– Art (JE, LH)
	  - Announce poster and research presentation competition at Recycle a Poster event (ES)
	  - Announce ChemLuminary finalist status and extend invitation to the Awards Party at the ACS Meeting in San Francisco (ES)
	  - Report on DowBQ ([AB]LH)
   5. The next meeting will take place on Monday August 4th at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main.
   6. *Around the table* – JM will invite Carolyn Fink to our next meeting to discuss creating a logo for KACS
