---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:41"
end-time: "19:42"
author: Angela Willson

roll-call: [Angela Willson (AW), Brian Eklov (BE), Sarah Glass (SG), Mara Birndorf (MB), Lydia Hines (LH), John Engelman (JE), Doug Williams (DW), John Miller (JM), and guest George Hines]
---

1. **Secretary's Report** (AW)
  1. *Review of October 2014 minutes* &amp;ndash; October minutes were approved

2. **Treasurer's Report** (JM)
  1. *Treasurer's Report* - We have received our dues allocation from National for the second half of the year and we received reimbursement for LH councilor travel. We've also spent some money recently: We paid new officer conference registration, money for refreshments at the CGSA &amp; NOBCChE TedX talk and CGSA &amp; Chem Club ice cream social, and expenses for Fivizzani's safety talk and visit. There were also some expenses associated with the poster event like prize money, refreshments and Jamison travel expenses. The Science Café expenses - venue, honorarium, travel, refreshments - will be paid from the Innovative Project Fund.
  2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* - The investment fund is back at levels we saw in September.
  3. *Budget items discussion* - Money that was used in the past for postcard mailings has been re-allocated to our website hosting costs. Some of the budget categories have also been changed to align more closely with National's categories for the ease of filling out FORMS. There were no changes to the budget requested from the members present.

3. **Communications Chair** (DW for DB)
  1. *Website Report* - We had 216 users visiting the site. The front-page was the most popular (39% of pageviews) with the December newsletter being the second most popular (22% of pageviews). Any member that has a gmail account and would like to be added to the analytics account can contact Mark Wolf.
  2. *Newsletter/Facebook Report* - An email will be sent to the membership on November 21, to promote the Nov. 24 Harmon Lectureship by Paul Anastas. Facebook page events were also created for this event. Facebook page has reached 118 followers.

4. **WMU and K College Chemistry Student Organizations**
  1. *Kalamazoo College* (JF, SG, MB) - Sarah and Mara gave reports on the Mole Day event and an ice-cream social event for science/chemistry students at the college [written report to be sent for the newsletter]
  2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) - No report
  3. *WMU Chemistry Graduate Student Association (CGSA)* (CB) - No report
  4. *NOBCChE* (CB) - No report. LH reminded us that there is no budget line item for NOBCChE because they are not an officially supported ACS student organization. This is different than occasionally allocating funds and grants to their events on a per case basis. NOBCChE is listed as a "Student Group" on our website.

5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional meeting*, May 27-30, Grand Rapids (LH). - We have one sponsor and 2 exhibitors' checks in hand. The current problem is finding a time to meet for finishing the budget and symposium discussions. There are currently 23 submitted symposia. Planning is progressing disappointingly slowly. Papers will be accepted beginning January 5th.
   2. *Report on NCW* - Chemistry Day at the Museum - October 11 - and Illustrated Poster contest (LH) - There were no posters submitted for the Illustrated Poster contest this year, which might be because of teacher disappointment in ACS making winning posters property of ACS, but we are not sure. Museum day was a "ton o' fun". We had good participation from ACS members, and, as always, many family and friends who also helped.
   3. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* - 2nd week of December (JM) - The event is scheduled for December 12th in the morning in Rood Hall at WMU. There will be an invitation for participation sent to KACS members in the next newsletter. This will be a 5-hour session because of alignment with continuing education credits for teachers.
   4. *Further comment on invitation to "participate in Climate Science Challenge" at Denver ACS* (JM) - An abstract has been submitted for the national meeting in Denver. JM plans to describe the approach that they took in our local section when structuring the Climate Change Event. Part of the problem with creating the material was working with and around some of ACS National's dense materials.
   5. *KACS Logo consideration* - continued (ES/Carolyn Fink) - No report.
   6. *Report on status of election for Treasurer, Chair-elect, Councilor* (AW) - The link for the election was sent out to members on November 4th. Polls will stay open for one month and after that we will have election results.
   7. *Reports re the outreach events at Gobles Elementary and Portage* (Haverhill Elementary) (AW) - Both events were successful. There was a lot of learning and fun for all of the students involved. At Gobles they had a science day with students and parents rotating to different classrooms. Haverhill's Science Day was a replacement to their Halloween party, which began with Halloween-themed science demonstrations.
   8. *Report on GLHS STEM exposition* (BE;LH) - This event was also a "ton o' fun", very well conceived and executed. On Friday Brian Eklov, Sarut Jianrattanasawatt, and Carl Stachew ( a former KACS Secretary) took shifts to work the table, and Lydia Hines worked the table on Saturday. We did not have any activities at our table, but we distributed ACS materials to over 6000 attendees - students, teachers and other interested public.
   9. *Event hosted jointly with Huron Valley Section /Ann Arbor* (2015) - funding request (BE) - The Huron Valley Section is trying to gauge our interest in a joint meeting with Ann Arbor and Detroit. They are requesting our monetary support of between $1000-$1500 for the event. Planning for this will continue at a meeting between the sections at the New Officer Training. We may be interested in a $750 contribution, if possible.

6. **New Business**
   1. *New Officers' Conference Dallas TX, January 23-25, 2015* - André Venter, our nominee for treasurer, has interest in the leadership training.
   2. *Next PR Email* (all) - Climate change invitation, election reminder, new officer announcements
   3. Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions. Send items for the newsletter to ACSkzoo@gmail.com send by Nov 21 for Dec 3 publication
      - Chair's comment (JE)
      - Invitation to participate in December Climate Change event (JM)
      - report on October Art Science Café' (BE)
      - ongoing call for actual help with planning JGLCRM (LH) report on Recycle-a-Poster program (ES)
      - Reports on outreach events at Gobles and Haverhill Elementary Schools (AW)
   4. The next meeting will take place on Thursday, December 11th at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main.

7. **Around the Table**
   - We had a discussion about events that happen at WMU and the need for directions for off-campus people. There was a competing event the night of the Science café and the venue had poor acoustics.
   - The Bell's poster session again was well received. There has been a recommendation to change the name of the event from "Recycle a Poster" to "KACS symposium".
   - John Miller raised his glass in recognition of Wally Hines, a former chair of the Section and an active volunteer, who died on October 31, 2014.