---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:42"
end-time: "19:53"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [John Engleman (JE), Doug Williams (DW), Amanda Bolles (AB),
	   Sarut Jianrattanasawat (SJ), Megan Grunert (MG), John Miller (JM),
	   Brian Eklov (BE), Mark Wolf (MW), Elke Schoffers (ES),
	   Don Schreiber (DS), Angela Willson (AW), Lydia Hines (LH)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** (LH for Carolyn Pugh)
   1. *Review of December minutes* – December minutes were approved with one correction.  AW will distribute corrected minutes.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – JM distributed report for December. The investment fund increased slightly in value, one outstanding check from spring exams was cashed. One correction includes a negative sign in front of the figure for the climate change grant, total will be updated.
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* – $500 received as a donation from each of Kalsec and Waters for the Sense-ational Food event.
3. **Communications Chair** (MW for DB)
   1. *Facebook page report* – As of Jan 4th, there were 65 likes on the FB page and 15 views, which is down from our average of 30 views due to a less busy time of the year.
   2. *Web site report* (MW) – MW distributed December website activity. The website had 112 visits with 68 individual hits for the December Newsletter as the most visited item. Website needs to be updated with contact information for individual board members and student groups. NOBCChE, K College and AW will respond to MW with appropriate contact information.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – AB reported that their club will be attending the Battle of the Chemistry Clubs at Michigan State University on January 25th to defend their title.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – No report
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.* (SJ) – Waiting to hear about funding towards Spring picnic from a WMU source, but making the KACS Exec Comm aware of a possible request for funding (Max available, $300).
   4. *NOBCChE* (HC) – No report
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional meeting* (LH) – No new items to report. No interest expressed by members of our co-hosting Western Michigan Section in many open co-chair positions such as website, awards, publicity, and local arrangements (Grand Rapids). LH will make contact with Western Michigan Section leadership concerning urgency in filling their co-chair positions. LH meeting with the Kalamazoo (Great Lakes Region) Awards co-chair, Sherine Obare, next week.
   2. *Climate Change Grant* (JM) – Four one-hour events (8am – 12 pm) on three separate occasions: Faith groups (Saturday, January 25th in the Rood Hall Computer Lab, WMU), Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts (Date and location: TBD), and Continuing Education members from WMU’s SCECH (February 22nd, location: TBD). The event will include modules on the basic science, biological response, what individuals can do, and societal/public policy approaches involved with climate change. Possible back-up location at KRESA. Open seats for interested parties with RSVP.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Events* (All):
      1. *Update on January 2014* – Chemistry & Culture: Food (Bell’s) – ES presented on event, which will be from 6-10pm on Wednesday, January 29th with programs beginning at 7pm. Activities will include a keynote speaker (group decided to invite Sarah Risch –LH will contact and ES will follow-up with event details) and hands-on activities. Kalsec employees have volunteered to run hands-on activities for the event. Event is on budget due to the fundraising of ES. ES agreed to contact Hunan Gardens about additional donations. Event needs to be created on Facebook.
      2. *Education Committee Report* (MG) – Competitive Exam (MG for JK), HS Science Symposium (MG) – Competitive Exam on track to occur this semester with more details to come from JK. MG will set HS Science Symposium Event for late April or early May (after finals at WMU). Information will be sent out shortly to high schools for head count to begin to plan speakers for sessions.
      3. *Project SEED* (DS) – Applications due at the end of January. Tentatively there will only be two Summer-I students.
   2. *Next PR Email* – timing and content of newsletter or email announcement, combined with Facebook and website updates (all) – No new newsletter for January. PR emails will be sent on January 17th to announce both the Food event and the Climate Change seminars. On January 22nd there will be a reminder email sent about the Climate Change event. On January 26th or 27th there will be a reminder email about the Food event. ES and JM will send wording of releases to MW.   
   3. Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions. Send items for the newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com – Next newsletter will be in February, which will include reports on both the Climate Change seminar and Food Event as well as a report about the Leadership Conference from BE.
   4. The next meeting will take place on Wednesday February 5, at 18:30 at Hunan Gardens on W. Main
7. **Anything for the parking lot?**
   - LH is registered as coordinator of Chemists Celebrate Earth Day (April); will contact Maren Zanotti to determine her interest in filling that role in 2014.
   - LH will forward a Younger Chemists Committee Feb. 11 career webinar announcement to AB and SJ for possible programmatic use with their Chem Clubs