---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: 18:33
end-time: "19:53"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [John Engelmann (JE), Brian Eklov (BE), Amanda Bolles (AB),
	   Jennifer Furchak (JF), Angela Willson (AW), Mark Wolf (MW),
	   Lydia Hines (LH), Elke Schoffers (ES), James Kiddle (JK),
	   Doug Williams (DW)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW)
   1. *Review of March 2014 minutes* – Changes to Facebook/Newsletter report will be made and then the minutes will be submitted to LH for archiving and MW for posting to the website.  Minutes otherwise approved
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – Our tax e-postcard (990-N) has been submitted and councilor travel reimbursement request has been submitted (can be done electronically now!).  Other notable account changes are associated with grant-funded activities (Bridging the Gap, Climate Change).  We will also continue to have ACS collect our national dues directly.
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* – We are still awaiting ACS allotment and corporate grant checks (Zoetis & Waters)
3. **Communications Chair** (DB)
   1. *Facebook page report* – Newsletter went out on April 1st.  There are currently 75 likes on our Facebook page.
   2. *Website report* (MW) – We had 200 visits, 165 of those unique, to primarily the front page of the website as well as a surprising number of hits on the February newsletter.  We are waiting to post the 2013 Annual Report until it has been reviewed; we are also missing the Events Report from 2012, which ES will submit for posting. 
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (AB)  - Their primary project right now is a service project working with Northglade Elementary with science fair projects, providing help to students that may otherwise not receive such help at home.  They will also have their annual DowBQ event with students and faculty members celebrating another school year.  A date is still being agreed upon for a Local Section Picnic which will be hosted jointly by the WMU CGSA and the K College Chem Club, possibly at the end of May.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – No report
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.* (SJ) – No report, but see item 4a re’ picnic
   4. *NOBCChE* (HC) – No report
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional meeting* (LH) – A phone conference was held by the committee to continue organizing for the event.  Flyers & magnets were distributed with “Save the Date” information at the Spring ACS National Meeting in Dallas.  A volunteer from the Western Michigan Section has agreed to co-chair the Awards Committee and another has been identified as Local Arrangements chair.  Webmaster MW has secured the domain name for our website (www.JGLCRM2015.com) and work for that will begin shortly.  JK gave a report on programs for the Regional Meeting, which will include a symposium on fermentation of food (possibly including cheese, beer, etc.) and the undergraduate symposium on Friday and an event for high school teachers on Saturday.  JK has also contacted the Organic division of ACS about a possible “Visible light photocatalysis” symposium.  There is a Google form on the website for more program recommendations.  The focus areas for the Meeting are food, environment and health.
   2. *CCED* – update on plans: location and volunteers (MZ), Illustrated Poem contest (LH) – Our section has received the ACS publication entitled Wonders of Water designed for grades 4-6.  MZ has secured a table at the Nature Center for the April 26th event.  Volunteers from K College have agreed to help with the event, which will probably include chromatography.  A capillary action demo and an oil & water demonstration were also suggested, the latter in recognition of the 25th anniversary of the Exxon Valdez oil spill.  Oshtemo library did not respond to our request to man a table for their event this year.  A request for submissions to the Illustrated Poem contest has been sent to K-12 teachers with an April 18 deadline; the best in each grade division (K-2, 3-5, 6-8, 9-12) will be sent on for the national judging.
   3. *Status of Competitive Exam* (JK) – The preliminary exam was given March 18th to 465 students from 17 local high schools.  103 were chosen as finalists, meaning they were either in the top three scores from their school or received a 31 or better (out of 40) on the exam.  The exam for finalists will be given April 26th.   This examination will determine our scholarship recipients.
   4. *Safety/training in academe (possible speaker) Art conservation?* (Science Cafe’) (JE) – LH proposed Kenneth Fivizzani from Chicago (formerly a Nalco safety officer) as a speaker for a safety talk.  He is willing to address issues that professors may face if an accident happens on campus, in light of current events.  The board approved the decision to invite him as our speaker for a mid-September presentation with a maximum of $600 for honorarium and expenses.  K College will be considered as a venue (JF).  JE passed around a potential speakers’ list (with talk synopses) for a Science Café on art conservation.  A decision on a speaker will be discussed further at our May meeting for a possible October talk.
   5. *Status of ACS Study Guide purchase/placement* (JM) – K College and WMU libraries will accept our donation of ACS Study Guides, while KVCC decided against.  The guides have been ordered and will be hand-delivered once they arrive.
   6. *Council* – report submitted to website, and oral (LH) – Highlights from the meeting included Peter K. Dorhout and William A. Lester, Jr. being selected as candidates for 2015 President-Elect, (voted in the Fall 2014).  Also, member dues for 2015 were set at $158, a $4 increase from 2014.  New International chapters in South Korea and Malaysia were approved, as was the establishment of an American Association of Chemistry Teachers (AACT).  In 2014 the NCW event will be “The Sweet Side of Chemistry: Candy” and the 2015 CCED theme will be “Climate Science – More than Just a Weather Report”.
   7. *Project SEED Report* (DS) – There will be two “Summer-I” SEED students at WMU.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Safety* (Rainbow Demo) e-mail contact with K-12 teachers (LH) – a common demo used in chemistry classrooms caused an injury in a New York high school, which caused the ACS to encourage teachers to stop using this demonstration in classrooms.  There are alternate experiments the ACS suggests in place of the rainbow flame demonstration. LH has supplied this information to the Section’s K-12 teachers.
   2. *Hach/ACS HS Teacher grant opportunity communication w/ HS teachers* (LH) – There is a $1500 grant available for teachers to enhance their classroom program.  Teachers may apply for by the deadline of April 16th.  An e-mail was sent to all our Section’s HS teachers.
   3. *Upcoming Events* (All):
      - CCED at KNC (MZ) – Event will occur April 26th at the Nature Center
      - High School Science Symposium (MG) – Date set for April 29th at WMU Chem Bldg
      - Awards Gathering (MG) – Awards event will be held in the WMU Chem Bldg Lobby on May 12th starting at 6 p.m. The candidate search for the Outstanding Chemistry Teacher Award is underway and nominations are currently being taken.  It was approved that the candidate may also come from last year’s runners-up.
      - Joint Picnic with CGSA (SJ) – Date has not been set, but will be soon.  Looking at holding the picnic in late May. (See Item 4a)
      - NCW – Chemistry Day at the Museum (LH) – Date has not been set, but the event will occur as usual during the 3rd full week of October. The theme will be “The Sweet Side of Chemistry: Candy”
      - Recycle a Poster – Bell’s (ES) – ES will check the availability of Bell’s for this event to be held in November or early December.
      - Climate Change Grant 3rd event – Sept. (JM) – The 3rd Climate Science Workshop will be in September, again focused on the education community, though the format may vary slightly – perhaps to include a bring your own device day with a longer open-lab/guided-inquiry component.  This will be held before the final report is due in October.
   4. *Next PR Email* – An email will be sent out on April 28th asking for nominations for Section Awards, which are requested to be submitted to LH by May 3rd.  We will also add a list of past award winners to the website, as well as an announcement about nominations.
   5. Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions. Send items for the newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com for publishing on May 1st. Content: Chair’s comment (JE); Announce May 12 Award Gathering (MG/JK); repeat call for papers for JGLCRM (JK); CCED Event Report (MZ); Announce teacher contact re’ Safety and re’ Hach awards (LH); If possible, High School Symposium (4/29) Report (MG)
   6. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday May 13th at 18:30 at Hunan Gardens on W. Main.
7. **Around the Table**
   - Co-host Meeting with Detroit/other Local Sections (BE) – We were extended an invitation to participate in a meeting in the Fall of 2015 in Ann Arbor with the meeting co-hosted by several eastern Michigan Sections; some financial contribution from our Section will be requested.  We agreed that BE should continue to keep the lines of communication open.  More details to come.
   - Olympiad/NCO participation (LH/MG) – LH will follow up with MG about the inquiry made by Mattawan High School’s chemistry teacher and Chem Club sponsor about her offer to help with administering the National Chemistry Olympiad.