---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:37"
end-time: "19:45"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [Doug Williams (DW), Brian Eklov (BE), John Miller (JM),
           Angela Willson (AW), Sarah Glass (SG), Jennifer Furchak (JF),
           Lydia Hines (LH), John Engelmann (JE), Chartanay Bonner (CB)]
---



1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW)
   1. *Review of September 2014 minutes* – September minutes were approved.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – We had no income since the last meeting.  Some items that have been paid include checks to WMU, ChemLuminary and SEED poster printing, and the CGSA Ice Cream Social.  There are still three outstanding checks from Student High school awards (students have been contacted).  We received a bill for the New Officer Conference in June, which has been paid.  We have budgeted for this month’s Science Café at the Richmond Center on October 23rd.  The next Climate Change event is planned for mid-December, and the Bridging the Gap Nanogrant has been fully spent and removed from the report.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account update* – Investments are down slightly from last month.  Upcoming expenses include the meal after Dr. Fivizzani’s talk, refreshments from the Safety event and mileage for the speaker.
3. **Communications Chair** (DW for DB & MW)
   1. *Facebook page report* – The Facebook page has 99 likes.  A couple of upcoming events (NCW at Kal Valley Museum, Frontiers in Chemistry Lectureship) have been created.  Page is updated several times a week with chemistry-related news and links.  Email communication with membership has included: 9/18/15 – an email was sent about lab safety promoting an ACS webinar and Dr. Fivizzani’s presentation; 9/25/14 – an email was sent promoting the Dow Great Lakes Bay Regional Science and Engineering Festival (Sept 27th); 10/3/14 – October Newsletter was sent to membership.
   2. *Website report* – We had 322 browsing sessions of which 262 were unique visitors.  Of the 322, the most popular starting places were the homepage (155), the September newsletter (55), the October newsletter (37) and the safety lecture event page (19).
   3. *Newsletter Report* – The October newsletter has been published.  Domain name fees and registration have been taken care of.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (JF, SG, MB) – K College held their first Chem Club meeting and had approximately 20 members present.  They have a table planned at NCW at the Museum and a Mole Day event planned on campus.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (LH for MZ) – Chem club will be doing slime at the museum event.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc* (CGSA) (CB) – CGSA had their ice cream social for the undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and staff of the Chemistry Department.  More than 40 people attended the event to kick off the new school year.  CGSA also asked for $50 to host a TEDx streamed event on campus to provide refreshments.  This event will be co-hosted with NOBCChE.
   4. *NOBCChE* (CB) – Students attended a STEM Festival conference in New Orleans and had a successful trip.  At Homecoming the group will be hosting a hot chocolate and cider fundraiser to raise money for their Ghana project that looks to provide jobs and health insurance.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional meeting* (LH) – Planning is still moving along for the meeting.  Budget planning has begun and there are currently 23 planned symposia.  There are also regular sub committee meetings happening and fundraising has started.  The goal is to have a variety of topics covering the themes of food, health, and the environment.  Registration fees are being set and there are sure to be more specific details to follow.
   2. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* (JM) – After receiving input from the Extended University Program (EUP) and KRESA on when is best to hold the 3rd event for teachers, it has been decided that late Fall to Spring works best because of when credits are due.  The event has been set for the 2nd week in December during WMU’s Exam Week.  The event will be held on a week night and it will be easier to find a room for the event.  All KACS members will be invited to participate.
   3. *Further comment on invitation to "participate in Climate Science Challenge" in Denver* (JM) – We have agreed to participate in the event, but have not heard any additional information from the National event organizers.
   4. *NCW – Chemistry Day at the Museum* – October 11 – and Illustrated Poster contest (LH) – It looks like we will have a good contingent of helpers at the event on Saturday, October 11th.  The tables are organized and there are many candy-themed activities scheduled.  Invitations to participate in the Illustrated Poem/Poster contest have been sent to K-12 teachers in our Section.  The deadline for submission to LH is November 5th.  [Twice we have had national winners from our section, so we hope for a good turnout of posters].
   5. *Art Science Café* (JE)  – Jim Engelmann will be presenting on Thursday, October 23rd (Mole Day) on the 2nd floor of the Richmond Center on WMU’s Campus at 6:02 pm.  LH has agreed to organize refreshments, which will probably include pizza and soda.
   6. *Recycle a Poster* – Nov 5 @Bell’s (LH for ES) – Scheduled program is Tim Jamison, but no new information has been discussed and plans are not finalized.
   7. *KACS Logo consideration* (ES/Carolyn Fink) – No report.
   8. Reminder that we MUST have ELECTION  for Treasurer, Chair-elect, Councilor in Oct. (LH) – Andre Venter has agreed to the nomination of Treasurer, but we are still looking for someone to fill the Chair-elect position.  Discussion will be continued about the possibility of having an incentive for the Chair position in the future.
   9. *High school Science Symposium* (LH) – The event has been postponed pending Edu Comm chair appointment.  There is possibly a person interested in the chair position.
   10. *Gull Lake Science & Engineering Event* (LH & JM) – We donated $500 to the event that expects to have approximately 6000 students in attendance.  They will have a table at our Chemistry Day at the Museum about the event.  Our donation gave us a table at their event, where we will display literature about ACS offerings and some information about hands-on experiments youngsters can use for their learning.  Because we do not have a KACS logo finalized, we will use the ACS logo for the event.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Next PR Email* (all) - Art Science Cafe’ announcement (October 23rd); Recycle-a-poster event announcement (November 5th?); announce Gull Lake Event (November 7th & 8th)
   2. Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions.  Send items for the newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com send by Oct 27 for Nov 3 publication
      - Chair’s comment (JE)
      - call for symposia for JGLCRM2015 (JK)
      - report on Art Science Café’ (BE)
      - ongoing call for actual help with planning JGLCRM (LH)
      - report on NCW Chem Day at the Museum (LH)
      - repeat announcement of need for chair-elect candidate(s) for Section Officer election (LH)
      - describe/present Recycle-a-Poster program (ES)
      - Repeat request for volunteers for Committee Chair/member vacancies (LH)
      - report on Fall Ice Cream social (CB/SJ) – already submitted}
   3. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, November 11th at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main.
