---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:45"
end-time: "20:05"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [John Engelmann (JE), Angela Willson (AW), Doug Williams (DW),
            Chartanay Bonner (CB), Brian Eklov (BE), Elke Schoffers (ES),
            John Miller (JM), Lydia Hines (LH)]
---



1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW)
   1. *Review of August 2014 minutes* – August minutes were approved.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – We received a replacement check from Zoetis.  We also had some income from Project SEED to pay students for their summer work.  We donated to the Great Lake Community School Science Fair, which means we will have a table at their event; the monies came from funds from the Nano Grant and some Climate Grant money.  There are still 3 HS Exam award winners with outstanding checks - JM will contact them to encourage them to cash the checks or he will reissue them, if needed.  We expect past-due income from a Water’s donation promised for our January food event.  We also have received a funding request for the WMU joint chemistry club (CGSA – NOBCChE- WMU Chem Club) Fall semester ice cream social (see item 4b below).  There is no budget item for the Safety Presentation in September or the Science Café in October, but money is avalable for both.  ES reminded us that it is important to have these figures for the ACS reports, (can include these items in FORMS which can be used as a planning as well as a reporting tool).  There are also expected expenses for the 3rd Climate Change workshop and National Chemistry Week [budgeted items].
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* – There was a slight overall increase seen in investments.
3. **Communications Chair** (LH/DW for DB/MW)
   1. *Facebook page/Communications report* (DB) – Facebook page is up to 83 likes. A newsletter was issued on September 6, 2014.  In August, the membership received 2 email messages: August 4, a message was received about Project SEED poster presentations on August 6th  ; and August 8, an announcement was sent about the availability of the August newsletter.
   2. *Web site report* (MW) – We had 177 unique visitors last month.  Up from the previous month, back to normal levels.  The September newsletter was posted.  Pages were created for the Safety Lecture and National Chemistry Week.  ChemLuminary results and additional photos are also up with a picture on the front page carousel.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – No report.
   2. *WMU Chem Club & WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc* (CB) – $100 was requested for the Ice Cream Social and was approved at the meeting.  The clubs (with NOBCChE) will hold the event on September 12th in the Chemistry Building at 3pm for students and faculty to kick-off a new school year.
   3. *NOBCChE* (CB) – There is an upcoming conference on September 23rd in New Orleans that they will attend for networking.  They are also planning a Science Fair & Science Bowl for local area middle schoolers.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional meeting* (LH). – Three keynote speakers have been set for the event (Drs. Dustin Mergott, Joan Brennecke, and Scott Denmark).  Planning continues to move along and a meeting is set for September 11th.  The committee has received several symposium ideas.  Room assignments will be decided soon.  Fundraising is starting as well as the search for exhibitors.  The committee reached out to universities in the area and expects a contribution from Wayne State.
   2. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* (JM) – There will be a 3rd Climate Change event sometime this fall on a Saturday morning.  An exact date will be set soon.  We have received recognition nationally from ACS and have been invited to participate in a symposium in Denver at the next national meeting.
   3. *Speaker* - Safety (Ken Fivizzani, T, Sept. 23, 6 pm @ K College –Dow Science, lecture hall (LH) – Dr. Fivizzani and his wife are excited to join us for our September event at K College.  Before the Safety talk he will be available to speak to students about the large variety of careers available to those who earn degrees in chemistry.  We plan to give Dr. Fivizzani a $300 honorarium and pay for travel expenses (mileage) and will treat him and his wife to dinner after his talk.  The abstract for his talk was in the August newsletter & is on the website.  Jennifer Furchak is arranging for “finger refreshments” to be available.  ES offered to design and distribute a publicity poster.
   4. *NCW* – Chemistry Day at the Museum – October 11 (LH) – There are 8 volunteers for the event so far.  JM volunteered; ES volunteered tentatively; CB will reach out to NOBCChE about finding more volunteers to man tables for the event.  DW will also reach out and has possible interest in a “Natural colors in food” table at the event.  LH distributed copies of this year’s Celebrating Chemistry as well as fliers to be posted as broadly as possible.
   5. *Science Café on Art and Art conservation* – Jim Engelmann – Oct 23 (JM, ES) – JM communicated with the Fine Arts department at WMU.  Of the two spaces available for the event, The Richmond Center ($100 and will allow us use of a classroom and the lobby for refreshments) and The Dalton Center Green Room ($50, with room for 30-40 people), we decided that the Richmond Center was the best choice and JM will book the venue.  The event will begin at 6:02pm on Mole Day (October 23rd).  We will provide refreshments, an honorarium and travel expenses.  ES offered to design and distribute a publicity poster.
   6. *Recycle a Poster* – Nov-Dec? @Bell’s (ES) – Timothy Jamison from MIT will be the keynote speaker at the event.  We will receive funding from Zoetis for the event on November 5th (tentative date).  A poster competition is being considered with small prizes.  ES offered to design and distribute a publicity poster.
   7. *High school Science Symposium* – postponed pending Edu Comm chair appointment] – No report.
   8. *KACS Logo consideration* (ES/JM/Carolyn Fink) – Our favorites are 1 & 3 per the email vote.  We will ask Carolyn to add color to these two designs before deciding on one design with which to move forward.
   9. *Report from Council at Fall ACS Meeting in San Francisco* (LH)  - ACS is re-evaluating Section-member numbers for Councilor assignments.  The American Association of Chemistry Teachers (AACT) is up and running.  There is an opportunity for a grant for Local Section Activities Committee, which would be an opportunity to support leadership training.  28 college scholarships were given out to former Project SEED students.  Lydia was re-elected by the Councilors to the Committee on Nominations & Elections. There is another $500 grant opportunity for innovative local events for community outreach, if there is interest – application deadline October 1st.
   10. Reminder that we need to vote for Treasurer, Chair-elect, Councilor in Fall election (LH) – We need nominations soon so an election can be held.  AW (secretary) will send out ballot when nominees are named.
   11. *ChemLuminary Awards* (ES) - Our Section received 2 out of the 3 awards for which we had been nominated:  The Outstanding Industry Event for the Recycle-a-Poster at Bell’s and the Outstanding New Public Outreach Program for the Dance event.  An article announcing these awards, with pictures, appeared in the September Newsletter and on the website.  The awards will most likely be displayed at Section events throughout the fall.  There was a brief discussion on where the awards will go on permanent display with suggestions of a public place such as WMU or the KIA.
   12. *Upcoming Events* (All):
      - Event hosted jointly with Huron Valley Section /Ann Arbor (2015) – (BE)
      - Olympiad/NCO participation (Edu Comm chair)] – No report
6. **New Business**
   1. *Report on date selection for Competitive Exam date* (JK - written) – We received an email from James Kiddle about how the date for the Exam was selected, which includes avoiding ACT or SAT dates, including the written exam for Juniors at the high schools.  A date is also selected based on availability of locations at WMU for the second exam, and attention is given to ascertaining there is adequate time for grading and notification of the winners before the Award Date.  The Science Olympiad date is not currently a primary factor taken into account when selecting a date.  BE will add this date-selection information to the operations manual currently on the website.
   2. *Next PR Email* – Safety/Career meeting announcement will need to be made on September 18th
   3. Send items for the newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com by Sept 21 for Oct 2 publication
      - Chair’s comment (JE)
      - call for symposia for JGLCRM2015 (JK)
      - If needed, Final call for volunteers for Chemistry Day at the Museum (LH)
      - Invitation to participate in 3rd Climate Change event? (JM)
      - announce/publicize Oct. 23 Science Café – Art (JE, LH)
      - 2nd call for actual help with planning JGLCRM (LH)
      - describe/present Recycle-a-Poster program (ES)
      - report on the Safety presentation (BE) (submit for Newsletter by September 26)
      - announce Nov. Science Event at Gull Lake Schools
      - announce Nov. Green Chem Program at MSU.
   4. The next meeting will take place on Monday October 6th at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main
