---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:40"
end-time: "19:45"
author: Lydia Hines
roll-call: [Amanda Bolles (AB), Elke Schoffers (ES), Mark Wolf (MW),
	   Megan Grunert (MG), Sarut Jianrattanasawat (SJ),
	   John Engelmann (JE), Lydia Hines (LH), Chartanay Bonner (CB),
	   Sarah Glass (SG)]
---

Since there was no quorum, **these are only Notes rather than Minutes.**

Introductions were made for all of us to meet Chartanay Bonner, the
new representative from NOBCChE and CGSA, and Sarah Glass, the new
student representative from Kalamazoo College (replacing Amanda Bolles
who is graduating).

1. **Secretary’s Report (AW)**
   - The Minutes were approved by the full executive committee – 4 members by e-mail, 3 members present and will be sent to the webmaster. 
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   - No report in the treasurer’s absence
3. **Communications Chair** (DB)
   1. *Facebook page report*  (DB) - there are now 76 “likes” on Facebook
   2. *Web site report* (MW) – there were 3 occasions for increased visits to the website; these coincided with the Newsletter publications  and the announcement of the Awards gathering.
   3. *Newsletter Report* (DB) – Four e-mails were sent to the membership. On 4/10:  updated time on “Frontiers in Chemistry” Lecture; 4/29:  Information regarding the KACS Awards gathering; 5/2: the May Newsletter; and 5/6: an invitation to the Local Section Activities Committee webinar on Local Section Best Practices
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (AB):  they helped at KPS’ Northglade Elementary with writing Science Reports; they will be having their DowBQ on May 27; a request for funding will be submitted
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – no report
   3. *WMU CGSA* (SJ)
      - They have the reservation of the Oshtemo pavilion for June 6.
      - They selected new officers:
         + President – SJ
         + VP – Dave Sellers
         + Secretary – Kelley Current
         + Treasurer – Jared Wabeke
         + Historian – Greg Hasman
         + KACS Representative – CB
   4. *NOBCChE* (CB)
      - They presented demonstrations at PPS’s 12th Str. Elementary;
      - They have a new Secretary - Khalil Lewis
      - CB is their new rep to the KACS Executive Committee
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional meeting* (LH) – we have a signed contract with the hotel/expo Hall venues in Grand Rapids, and we are working toward a face-to-face meeting of the organizing committee in June.
   2. *CCED event report* (MZ, LH) and Illustrated Poem contest report (LH) – report appeared in the May 2 newsletter; presentations at Oshtemo Library and Kalamazoo Nature Center were well received and many materials were distributed to children and parents; submissions to the CCED Illustrated Poem Contests were received from 2 High schools (Allegan HS and Heritage Christian Academy), each of 2 winners (one from each school) was sent a $15 Jet’s Pizza gift card and the one winning poster was sent for National judging.
   3. *Report on High School Science Symposium* (MG) – canceled for Spring; MG will evaluate a memorandum from WMU detailing policies regarding minors’ participation in activities on campus, as well as WMU room availability, and advise the EC regarding the likelihood of scheduling this symposium in the late Fall/ in December; Megan has begun to communicate with teachers to inquire about their time preferences.
   4. *Awards Gathering Report* (MG/JK) – Megan reported that the event went very smoothly and there was a record turnout.  There was conversation regarding maybe reinstituting the former opportunity given to the “winning” students to tell us what they plan to do “next year”.  KACS Section Award recipients were Sherine Obare, Charissa Oliphant, Doug Williams and Elke Schoffers.
   5. *Status of ACS Study Guide purchase/placement* (JM) – ES reported that study guides have been placed at the WMU Library; not known if they are at the K College Library yet – awaiting information from JM
   6. *Joint Picnic with CGSA* (SJ) – June 6 is the confirmed date for which the Oshtemo Township Hall pavilion has been reserved; a budget will be submitted to JM
   7. *Project SEED* – summer (DS) – no report
   8. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* – Sept. (JM) – no report
   9. *Speaker: Safety* (LH) - Ken Fivizzani confirmed his availability for Wednesday Sept. 23, 6 pm to speak on the very important issue of Safety (and personal as well as corporate liability) in the academic and industrial arenas; a request was made to (and accepted by) SG that she ask if we can be hosted at K College for that lecture.
   10. *Science Café* on Art and Art conservation – JE applied for an ACS science café’ minigrant for this event; the likely date will be in October.  The 3 EC members present agreed that we extend an invitation to Jim Engelmann to give the talk whose summary was given to us at the April meeting; a vote of the remaining 4 members will be taken by e-mail and we will proceed after that is completed.
   11. *Recycle a Poster* – Nov-Dec? @Bell’s (ES) – ES asked for input regarding whether or not we want to continue with having a keynote speaker for this event (we have a bit of extra money so we have some flexibility and can look for a speaker from outside our Section’s geographic area) OR if, instead, we should try to organize a few short research presentations by selected graduate and undergraduate students
   12. *ACS Webinar participation* (May 6) (ES) – this program was well presented and ES’s report will appear in the next Newsletter; the transcript of the entire presentation will become available on the ACS website in late May; the link will be included in the newsletter.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Upcoming Events* (All):
      - NCW: Chemistry Day at the Museum (LH); due to Museum scheduling of Halloween our Chemistry Day has been scheduled for Saturday, October 11, 12 – 4 p.m.; K College and WMU students were invited to participate in the activity presentations.  This year’s theme is “The Sweet side of Chemistry-Candy”
      - Event hosted jointly with Huron Valley Section /Ann Arbor (2015) – (BE) – no update
      - Proposal to give $50 gift card to Robin Lenkart for expert assistance with Award Gathering (LH) – attendees and the other EC members (in absentia) were all in accord with approving this proposal; so JM will be asked to purchase a pre-paid $50 Mastercard for Robin.  
   2. *Next PR Email* – timing and content of newsletter or email announcement, combined with Facebook and website updates (all) – we don’t foresee a need for this at this time   
   3. Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions.  Send items for the newsletter
to ACSkzoo@gmail.com
      - Chair’s comment (JE)
      - repeat call for papers for JGLCRM (JK)
      - Report on Award Gathering (MG)
      - Report on ACS Study guide purchase and placement (JM)
      - Announce Picnic (SJ)
      - Report re contact with teachers re safety and Hach grants (LH)
      - Report on May webinar (ES)
      - The receipt date for articles by David Bolliet was set as May 27 with a publication date for the next Newsletter set as June 1.
   4. The next EC meeting date was set as Wednesday, June 4, at Hunan Gardens, 6:30 p.m.
7. **Around the Table**
   - *Olympiad /NCO participation* (LH/MG) – LH let those present know that she had been in communication with MG regarding the interest by the Mattawan HS teacher, Dr. Tuls, in offering the Olympiad exam; she left written memos for MG’s consideration.  MG will evaluate the request and review the relevant material when she has more time.
   - There was considerable conversation regarding the $size of the awards to our examination winners; LH commented on her conversation with JM regarding the topic, and ES made the motion that we consider making the first place award $599 [to make it easier for the recipient and the volunteer].  Further discussion will continue at another EC meeting.
