---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:43"
end-time: "20:40"
author: Doug Williams
roll-call: [Jennifer Furchak (JF), Brian Eklov (BE), John Engelmann (JE),
            Elke Schoffers (ES), Lydia Hines (LH), John Miller (JM),
            Doug Williams (DW), Carolyn Fink (CF) - guest]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW in absentia)
   1. Review of June 2014 minutes - minutes were approved
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM) – approved.
3. **Communications Chair** (DB)
   1. *Facebook page report* – Our page now has 80 likes.
   2. *Web site report* (MW) – Traffic was low and consistent with light section activity at this time.
   3. *Newsletter Report* (DB) – August newsletter is slightly delayed and will be sent later this week. Our annual fee for web space ($120) and domain name ($15) are due soon. DB should contact JM when payment is needed.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* – No report.
   2. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association* – No report.
   3. *WMU Chem Club* – No report.
   4. *NOBCChE* – No report.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional meeting* (LH) – LH reported that speakers Scott Denmark (plenary) and Tom Lane (banquet) have been scheduled but program development seems slow overall.  Letters to Exhibitors and Sponsors have been printed and are being distributed.  ES passed out a number of promotional materials to those present at the meeting.
   2. *Project SEED* – (LH for DS) – The SEED poster session will take place on August 6 at Haenicke Hall in conjunction with poster presentations by students in the REU and HHMI programs.
   3. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* – Sept (JM) – Date is yet to be determined but details will be published in the September newsletter.
   4. *Speaker* - Safety (Ken Fivizzani, W, Sept. 23, 6 pm) – This event will take place in the Dow Science Building at K-College.  JF is coordinating arrangements.  Dr. Fivizzani will hold a discussion with students on careers in chemistry just before his presentation.
   5. *NCW – Chemistry Day at the Museum* – October 11 (LH) – LH continues to seek volunteers to help with this event.
   6. *Science Café on Art and Art conservation* Oct 23 – (JE, JM) – JM/ES will look into reservation of the Richmond Center at WMU for this presentation and let JE know if this will work.
   7. *Recycle a Poster* – Nov-Dec? @Bell’s (ES) – ES envisions having a keynote speaker or a series of student presentations.  She is also considering a competition for outstanding student posters.  The date is still to be decided.
   8. *High School Science Symposium* – Megan Grunert has resigned as Education Committee chair.  The High School Science Symposium will not be held this year.  The web site will be updated to reflect this new volunteer opportunity.
6. **New Business**
   1. *KACS Logo consideration* (JM/Carolyn Fink).  CF listened to our thoughts on local themes that distinguish the KACS section.  She will return to us with 4-6 prototype logos for consideration.
   2. *Items on Council Agenda at Fall ACS Meeting in San Francisco* (LH).  LH gave a brief review of the relatively noncontroversial agenda for councilors at this next meeting.
   3. *Sponsorship/Participation Request from Science and Engineering Festival* (Gull Lake Schools)  We approved a $500 donation to support this event.  JM will follow up with a check to Lesley Baynes of the Gull Lake Community Schools Foundation.  We are interested in participating in the exhibitor section of this event.
   4. *BCCE request for "sponsorship"* – The window of opportunity for supporting this event with a donation has passed.
   5. Reminder that we need to look for Treasurer, Chair-elect, [Councilor] for Fall election (LH) – We have been reminded; we also need to identify a chair for the Education Committee.
   6. *Upcoming Events* (All):
      1. Event hosted jointly with Huron Valley Section /Ann Arbor (2015) (BE) – The IPG for this will be submitted in the fall as is appropriate for the 2015 program year.
      2. Olympiad/NCO participation (LH) – We need to revisit this topic when we have an education committee chair identified.  Testing and selections will take place in April.
   7. *Next PR Email* – We may not need another email before the next newsletter or EC meeting.
   8. *Next newsletter* – Items should be sent to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com by August 21 for Sept 2 publication.  Content and assignments: Chair’s comment (JE); call for symposia for JGLCRM2015 (JK); call for volunteers to help with JGLCRM (LH), 2nd Call for volunteers for Chemistry Day at the Museum (LH); Invitation to participate in Sept. Climate Change event (JM); announce/publicize Sept. 23 Safety presentation (LH); announce/publicize Science Café – Art (JE, LH); summary of ChemLuminary Award presentations (ES); Recycle-a-Poster “contest” as program (ES).
7. The next EC meeting will be Sep 4(Thu) at 6:30 pm (Hunan Gardens).
