---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: 18:33
end-time: "19:53"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [John Engelmann (JE), Doug Williams (DW),
	   Sarut Jianrattanasawat (SJ), John Miller (JM), Brian Eklov (BE),
	   Jennifer Furchak (JF), Angela Willson (AW), Lydia Hines (LH)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW)
   1. *Review of January 2014 minutes* – January minutes were approved.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (JM)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – JM will distribute the February Treasurer’s report electronically.  The investment fund has not changed substantially.  All checks from the award students have been cashed.  We have received $3000 from the WMU foundation for 2014 SEED and $200 from Great Lakes for the Chemistry Food event.  Additional expenses reported for Chemistry Food event, including DJ, travel expenses for guest Sara Risch, and refreshments.  Money expected from Zoetis for the Fall Poster session, Waters (for Chemistry food event) and ACS for both travel reimbursement and annual allotment.
3. **Communications Chair** (DW for DB and MW)
   1. *Facebook page report* – Number of likes has increased slightly for a total number of 71.  Posts on Facebook are seen by around 20 people, when the post is not shared further.  When a post is shared, number of views on post increases, e.g. “Chemistry & Culture: Food” event was seen by 106 people thanks to multiple shares. There is a general consensus that there is no need to expand to other social media network (Twitter, Pinterest, other) at this time as Facebook is most popular.  The renaming of the Facebook page from ‘www.facebook.com/ACSKalamazoo’ to ‘www.facebook.com/KalamazooACS’ to be consistent with the website url was approved.  About a dozen member emails are not working, as evidenced from returned Newsletters.  
   2. *Website report* – The website received 331 visits during the month of January, with 238 unique visitors.  This is significantly higher than usual with a spike resulting from the e-mail announcement of the chemistry-and-culture food event.  Around 20% of visits came from mobile devices.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (LH for AB) – Younger chemists webinar event had interest from the students at Kalamazoo College and from WMU undergraduates.  They have a room planned and are planning on organizing food for the event as well.  Materials have been ordered and the event will be held February 11th. 
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) – No report
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc.* (SJ) – CGSA has been approached about cooperating on an event during lunch time for 5th graders to happen later in February.  More details to come.
   4. *NOBCChE* (HC) – No report
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional meeting* (LH).  – No new volunteers from W. Michigan.  Amway Grand has been picked as a potential site with a follow up site visit & committee meeting planned for February 22nd.
   2. *Climate Change Grant* (JM) – report on first event (of 3) on January 25 – 8 out of 12 registered participants from various faith communities were present and the event was overall well received.  This event included many hands-on activities with readily available items that can easily be shared with their home congregations.  Attendance was lower than expected due to a snow-filled Saturday.
   3. *Report on “Chemistry and Culture: Food” Event* (JE for ES) – We had a total of 98 attendees at the event.  Our main donors were Kalsec ($500), Waters Corporation ($500) and GLCC Co ($200).  We received additional donations in the forms of gift cards, $50 each, from Harding’s Friendly Markets and Family Fare, which were used to buy food and supplies.  Sawall Health Food gift cards, 2 each for $20, were given as door prizes.  Lastly, we received food from: The Victorian Bakery, Hunan Gardens and Bacchus Wine & Spirits.
   4. *Chemists Celebrate Earth Day (CCED) coordinator update* (LH) – MZ has agreed to coordinate this event again this year.  This year’s theme for CCED is “The Wonder of Water” ; Nature Center Earth Day activities will be held on Saturday, April 26. 
   5. *Status of Competitive Exam distribution* (LH for JK/MG) – Exams are being distributed to the high schools within our Local Section (Kalamazoo-Allegan-Van Buren counties)
6. **New Business**
   1. *Report from ACS Leadership Conference in Dallas* (BE) – The weekend began with a frozen outdoor fountain, but ended in the 70’s.  “Highlights” included a concurrent Texas Biker Brotherhood Party and chats with the Huron, Detroit, Midland and Milwaukee sections.  Also many hellos were passed on to Lydia.  There is a request that an event be planned for 2015 to include all of the Sections.  One suggestion was a possible talk hosted in Ann Arbor in the fall.  This fits right in line with a push from ACS to have more collaboration between sections.  There was also mention of a new email management system called Real Magnet.  If there is interest we could choose to participate in a beta test of the system.  DW to inquire about interest from DB.
   2. *Annual Report 2013 submission* (ES and all) – ES will be writing the report, which is due February 15.  Anyone with reports is asked to share these with her so they may be included in the annual report.
   3. *Upcoming Events* (All):
      1. CCED at KNC/Library? in April (LH for MZ) – Need to check on where the event will be held and if we will be running two locations like last year.  LH to inquire about library availability.
      2. High School Science Symposium – early May after WMU’s final exams
      3. Awards Gathering – late May to hopefully avoid conflict with other student activities
      3. Joint Picnic with CGSA – early June, but still awaiting word from WMU about funding.
   4. *Next PR Email* – There was a general consensus that there is no need for a PR email in February
   5. Submissions for the next newsletter, outlined below in content, are to be submitted to ACSkzoo@gmail.com by February 20th for publishing on February 27th or 28th.
      1. Content: Letter from Chair (JE); Report on Food Event (ES); Report on first and second session of Climate Change Program (JM); Report on ACS Leadership Conference in Dallas (BE); Call for volunteers for CCED (MZ or LH); First call for papers for joint meeting (JK)
   6. The next meeting will take place on Wednesday March 12th at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main

7. Nothing new for the parking lot.