---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:38"
end-time: "19:40"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [Andre Venter (AV), Doug Williams (DW), Brian Eklov (BE), Jennifer Furchak (JF),
           Lydia Hines (LH), John Engelmann (JE), Mike Walsh (MikeW), Elke Schoffers (ES)]
---



1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW)
   1. *Review of February 2015 minutes* – February minutes were approved.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (AV)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – Expenses for AV’s trip to Dallas and check for poster award were cashed. This leaves two outstanding awards from last year. There is an upcoming expense of $750 for Climate Change workshops, which come from the grant. AV also gave the councilor a check for advance travel expenses.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account update* – Investments increased by $209
   3. *Signatures transfer* - We need the secretary to sign a paper saying that we held an election and signatures will be transferred. Then those who are permitted to sign will need to sign the appropriate documents for Bank of America. For the Vanguard documents for investments need to be notarized, which can be done at the UPS store next to the restaurant. We do not need the current officers with the secretary’s signature. We will have Andre Venter, Brian Eklov and Lydia Hines as signatories on the account. There are still some questions about if we can use Old National instead of Bank of America, which may require some transfers. A banker at the Old National branch in Oshtemo is awaiting AV’s call to discuss accounts.
   4. *Clarification of budget category descriptions* - The new budget has terms that are unclear to the EC.  JM had mentioned that the new topics were in-line with current ACS forms. AV will find out more information.
   5. *Tax Compliance letter* - AV should have an email about the Tax Compliance letter and will make sure that it gets taken care of.  If you don’t know whom to contact at ACS about Local Section matters, (e.g., Tax Compliance) contact Frank Walworth at 800-227-5558 (1-6070-#).
3. **Communications Chair** (BE for DB & MW)
   1. *Facebook page report* – We currently have 186 likes on our Facebook page. There were 3 email communications to ACS members this month. Emails included an open lab tech position at KALSEC, then on Feb 25th with the Newsletter and on Feb 27th about an open position at WMU.
   2. *Website report* – There was an increase in traffic due to the jobs page and newsletter. The front page of the website needs new content. BE suggests the JGLCRM since it is coming up in May. April 25th is Chemists Celebrating Earth Day, which would also be a likely candidate. BE will communicate our suggestions to Mark. The annual report for 2013 needs to be posted on our website; Mark should have received it from BE.
   3. *Newsletter Report* – - DB would prefer April 12th as the release date for the next newsletter instead of the 5th.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (JF, SG, MB) – No report.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (LH for MZ) – No report.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc* (CGSA) (CB) – No report.
   4. *NOBCChE* (CB) – No report.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional (JGLCRM) meeting, May 27th-30th, Grand Rapids* - LH brought everyone registration forms last time and has more for anyone who would like them. The meeting is still in planning. There have been some changes in committees. ES has taken over for John Miller as Expo chair. The website has a call for help and the symposium list is up. Abstracts are open, and need to be turned in shortly. At this point there are very few submissions. We also are in need of more exhibitors. The awards nomination deadline has passed; ES submitted KACS’ Recycle-a-poster event for a P3 award, based on our section’s collaboration with local industry and academe to put on the Poster Event at Bell’s for three years running.
   2. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* (JM) –The third workshop is being planned for early April – maybe this could be tied with Earth Day and happen later in April? LH will ask Steve Bertman.
   3. *KACS Logo consideration - continued* (ES/Carolyn Fink); - ES recently contacted Carolyn and is waiting for a reply. The memento/mug was a suggestion from D Bolliet to use the logo on an object to sell to members at cost to promote the section.
   4. *Competitive Exam - status* (JK/LH)– The competitive exams have been sent out by James Kiddle. Only three high schools requested exams. The first, in-school, exam is on March 17th, so a reminder has gone out to schools who did not request exams to see if more schools wish to participate. Each school gets one copy of the exam, which they copy for their students.
   5. *ACS On Campus Update* (BE) - BE sent a notice to the ACS on Campus (website) and has not heard a reply. He suggested the fall as a good time to do this, but they are probably currently busy with some of their current events in Colorado.
   6. *Education Committee “shadowing”/info-gathering report* (BE, MikeW) – BE will contact Dr. Kiddle about meeting with Mike Walsh to talk about the operation of the Education Committee. 

6. **New Business**
   1. *Report from Dallas Leadership Conference* (AV) - Dallas was great and was an opportunity to meet many interesting people, like representatives from the Huron Valley section and the Grand Rapids section. Grand Rapids was very keen to connect with us. The deadline for a Nano-Grant for two sections working together is tomorrow, March 3rd. AV will reach out to the man from the Grand Rapids section to see if they can put something together.  [idea: Would it be possible to do an evening Sci Mixer with the other section as part of the JGLCRM that plays with the theme of food and environment?]  There is no report on the potential cooperating event (Innovative Project Grant) between KACS and Huron Valley.
   2. *Next PR Email* CCED will need an email blast for the event on April 25th at the library (two emails: one on March 25th, and a second on April 8th – as needed). JGLCRM request for help. Abstracts are set to close Monday, March 23rd for JGLCRM. There should be an email blast on Wednesday, March 18th to remind KACS members to send abstracts.
   3. *Request from Portage North Middle School for presentation on STEM careers” (LH) - This is approximately a 1 hour presentation on careers in the middle of February. Nothing has come together at this point and there aren’t very many specifics. It would be interesting to organize something from multiple points of views. Maybe we could possibly look at doing something in the future since it is short notice for this time.
   4. Discuss the next newsletter mailing date and deadline for submissions. Send items to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com by March 30th for April 12th publication.
	- Chair's comment (BE)
	- call for help with planning for JGLCRM2015 (LH)
	- announce/invite participation in 3rd Climate Change workshop (SB)
	- announce Competitive Exam status (JK/MikeW)
	- CCED announcement (MZ)
	- Call to industry & colleges for JGLCRM (ES)
	- Hotel discounts end for JGLCRM on April 19th (ES)
   5. *Project SEED* - Dr Don Schreiber (387-2856) will send a request to HS teachers asking for eligible students at the end of March, so we can put an announcement in May's newsletter. Project SEED is for economically disadvantaged high school students to provide them with a scientific laboratory experience.
   6. The next meeting will take place on Monday, April 6th at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main.
7. **Around the Table**
   1. JM gave AV an invitation from a Gull Lake robotics event. They would like an ACS member to be present at the event. This is slightly outside of our area, but if anyone is interested than we can pass information along.
   2. For CCED, MZ (who just agreed to be CCED Coordinator) is going to try to request the Nature Center as one location (date TBD) and LH will go to the Oshtemo Library on Saturday, April 25th from 1-3pm for their program.
   3. *Council meeting is coming up in Denver* (LH). The biggest item on the agenda is that dues are increasing from $158 to $162. There is no other significant point up for discussion, except announcing the addition of more international chapters. Lastly, American Association of Chemistry Teachers (AACT) has been growing, which is an independent organization of ACS meaning that teachers do not have to be members of both organizations. As a reminder, we had already decided to include a membership to AACT as an award to our Section’s teacher award winner.
   4. *Questions about Exam Timeline* (Mike Walsh) – March 17th is when we give the exam, which is a date set by the local section.   All schools take the exams on the same day. The second exam is given on the date of our choosing and is held at WMU. There is no chance for a retake.  This year it is on April 25th in an attempt to keep it away from State Science Olympiad. 