---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:30"

roll-call: [Lydia Hines (LH), Doug Williams (DW), Brian Eklov (BE), Angela Willson (AW), Jennifer Furchak (JF), Andre Venter (AV)]
---


1. **Secretary's Report** (AW) - December minutes were approved. The officer's report will be sent to ACS as soon as all of the information is put together.
2. **Treasurer's Report** (AV)
   1. *Treasurer's Report* - Members on the account (Doug, John, etc.) need to travel to Grand Rapids to the nearest Bank of America to change accounts. We are not sure if our accounts were changed to Old National when Bank of America was acquired locally. There was a proposal to look into changing banks to a local credit union or bank.
   2. *Investment Fund / Checking Account update* - Our investments are up slightly overall between a divident payment and some decreases in the market througout the month. We received $1000 from Zoetis for the poster event. One poster prize has not been cashed and two honoroable mention awards from the award ceremony last May have also not been cashed. JM will have more information about how to contact the award winners to see if checks need to be rewritten. AV will contact and give a notice to cash checks. In the future can we give cash as awards with a receipt that the award has been received?
3. **Communications Chair** (DB)
   1. *Facebook page report* - There are currently 126 Facebook likes.
   2. *Newsletter Report* (DB) - The newsletter was published on December 5th and was distributed to membership by email. There was no January newsletter.
   3. *Website report* (MW) - The website received normal traffic and the December newsletter was published on December 5th. BE & AW plan to join the Google Analytics. Recent events was outdated and needed to be updated. Most likely this section will be removed because there is the scrolling pictures at top, which also advertise similar information.
4. **Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (JF, SG, MB) - No report, but stay tuned for more information about the upcoming Battle of the Chem Clubs.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (MZ) - No report
   3. *WMU Chemistry Graduate Student Assoc* (CGSA) (CB) - No report
   4. *NOBCChE* (CB) - No report
5. *Old Business**
   1. *2015 Joint Great Lakes-Central Regional (JGLCRM) meeting*, May 27-30, Grand Rapids (LH) Planning continues for the meeting with a face to face meeting on Saturday. Abstracts are coming in and registration is due to start on Thursday. As scheduled, there was a call for papers in the December C&EN magazine.
   2. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event plans/report* (JM) - No report. We are not sure that the event happened as scheduled.
   3. *KACS Logo consideration* (ES/Carolyn Fink) - Nothing new to report.
   4. *High School Competitive Exam* (LH) - Dr. James Kiddle has agreed to continue organizing the competitive exam until we can find a replacement education chair. The EC agreed that we should make every effort to avoid Science Olympiad State Finals, which are on May 2nd. May 2nd is also WMU Graduation, which is historically the day the final exam has been offered with no opportunity for make-up. The make-up policy will stand.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Next PR Email* - None needed at this time
   2. Send items for the newsletter to: ACSkzoo@gmail.com send by January 22 for February 3 publication
      - Chair's comment (BE)
      - JGLCRM ongoing call for help with planning (LH)
      - 3rd Climate Change workshop (JM); Comments from past chair (JE)
   3. The next meeting will be Monday, February 9th at 6:30pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main. There was some discussion about changing meeting locations for the future.

7. **Around the Table**
   1. *Kellogg Elementary Math & Science Expo* - We have been invited to help on Thursday, February 26th at this event. We plan to provide $100 monetary support for the event. AW and K College will look into setting up a table demonstration with no latex. At this point all we know is set-up is from 12-2:30 for this event for students and their families. They asked for door prizes, which we are unable to accommodate at this time with our current ACS supplies.
   2. *Great Lakes Region Board* - LH agreed to continue as our representative on this board, which inclues 20 sections from the region. LH is also chair of this board.
   3. *Thank you from Deb VanAntwerp* (Haverhill Science Day) - Deb sent a great thank you card for the presentation from AW on Halloween for their Science Day. The presentation was informative, festive and fun for the kids. Explanations were age appropriate and kept the kids engaged during the 40 minute school assembly.