---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: "Hunan Gardens"
time: "18:45"
end-time: "19:45"
author: Angela Willson
roll-call: [Doug Williams (DW), Brian Eklov (BE), Jennifer Furchak (JF),
           Lydia Hines (LH), Sarut Jianrattanasawat (SJ)]
---

1. **Secretary’s Report** (AW)
   1. *Review of January 2015 minutes* – January minutes were approved and will be sent to MW for the website.
2. **Treasurer’s Report** (AV)
   1. *Treasurer’s Report* – No report.
   2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account update* – No report.
3. **Communications Chair** (BE for DB & MW)
   1. *Facebook page report* – We have increased our likes from 126 likes to 179 likes (up 53 likes), however this may be worrisome because most of this increased activity is from the Middle East and Eastern Europe. Do we want to make the page private?
   2. *Website report* – The website had 155 sessions from 136 unique users who viewed approximately 310 pages. 20% of our traffic are from users in Brazil. SJ mentioned that this might be because of CGSA’s and NOBCChE’s TED talk event in October that was streamed on campus.
   3. *Newsletter Report* – February newsletter has been delayed and should be released early next week. Communication can be improved by having AW send the minutes to the entire EC after Lydia has approved. DW will continue to liaison between the involved parties. A lab tech position will be posted on the website, which will serve to remind the membership that this service is available to promote job openings.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Student Organizations**
   1. *Kalamazoo College* (JF, SG, MB) – Battle of the Chem Clubs was the last weekend in January. K College did not successfully defend their title.
   2. *WMU Chem Club* (LH for MZ) – No report. Is MZ still the head of the WMU Chem Club? SJ will investigate.
   3. *WMU Chemistry Grad Student Assoc* (CGSA) (CB) – CGSA is planning the annual picnic for
Friday, May 22nd in Oshtemo. This is just before the Joint Great-Lakes Central Regional meeting. Funding will come from Western this time. BE will reserve the pavilion at the park. CGSA is working on getting a banner to promote the organization.
   4. *NOBCChE* (CB) – No report.
5. **Old Business**
   1. *Annual Report 2013 sent to MW for website and AR 2014 submitted on 2/3/15* (JE/BE/LH) – The 2013 Annual Report and Financial Report have been sent to MW for our website.  It will be available shortly. 2014 has been submitted to National. JE contributed a summary of events for the year. The deadline is February 15th and we finished early. We did not submit for any awards this year.
   2. *Climate Change Grant 3rd event* (JM) – BE will contact JM to try to get an update on his status. We presume JM is still presenting on the Climate Change Workshops in Denver.
   3. *KACS Logo consideration - continued* (ES/Carolyn Fink); also, memento/mug? – No report.
   4. *Event hosted jointly with Huron Valley Section /Ann Arbor (2015) – funding* (BE) – They were planning on filing for an IPG and the deadline either has past or is coming up shortly, so we will wait to hear more from AV about the meeting.
   5. *Competitive Exam distribution to High Schools - status* (JK/LH) – Robin, the chemistry department secretary, has sent the information to all of the teachers in the Kalamazoo section. Response from the teachers will let her know how many exams each teacher needs – the deadline is March 6th. The prizes have been sent to encourage participation.  Then teachers are responsible for proctoring the exam and returning the results.
   6. *Follow-up from items 7a and 7d from January 2015 Minutes* (LH) – 7a: K College and AW cannot attend the Kellogg Elementary Math and Science Expo. We need to follow up with AV to see if we sent $100 to the proper place. 7d: We were also going to add a membership to the AACT to the winning teacher. Sharine Obarre, who selects the teacher, has been made aware of the addition to the award.

6. **New Business**
   1. *Report from Dallas Leadership Conference* (AV) - No report.
   2. *Update on Education Committee Chair* (BE/MW) – Mike Walsh is interested in getting more information about handling the exam and the awards. Andre Venter and Sharine Obarre are the other part of the sub-committee who select the winning teacher from nominations from building principles. We should send the existing operating manual (which is on our website) to MW that contains the job description. Last year we had an inquiry about sponsoring a local Olympiad event or hosting AACT events, so there could potentially be new opportunities to change what is the current standard. BE/MW, Robin, and James Kiddle will work on setting up a time to meet to cover the current timeline for events like the exam, nominations, banquet, etc.
   3. *Request from Portage North Middle School for presentation on STEM careers” (LH) - This is approximately a 1 hour presentation on careers in the middle of February. Nothing has come together at this point and there aren’t very many specifics. It would be interesting to organize something from multiple points of views. Maybe we could possibly look at doing something in the future since it is short notice for this time.
   4. *Bring “ACS On Campus” Program to K/WMU* - Program that has travelled the globe offering career development tools for students (undergraduate and graduate), local ACS members and faculty on campus, i.e. grant writing, career development and planning, publishing process, research resources, networking and communicating your science. Event is hosted as a 1-2 day event to hold seminars. JF/MW thinks there would be interest at K College, but it is hard to promise attendance if the event is held at WMU. Could we possibly hold one day on each campus with each inviting the other to each other’s event? CGSA would be on board as well. When could we hold such an event? March is probably too fast and May is too busy, but we could ask if April if it is possible. BE will put in a request and see what ACS wants to do.
   5. *Next PR Email* - Nothing needed at this time
   6. *Newsletter for March* - There is no need for a newsletter at this time as there is a newsletter going out in late February. JGLCRM is covered well in that newsletter.
   7. The next meeting will take place on Monday, March 2nd at 6:30 pm at Hunan Gardens on W. Main.