---
layout: about_page
title: Bylaws
---

BYLAWS OF THE KALAMAZOO LOCAL SECTION OF THE AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY
===

**Effective 2009-12-07.** Approved, as amended, by the Committee on
Constitution and Bylaws, acting for the Council of the AMERICAN
CHEMICAL SOCIETY.

Download the approved version
[here](kacs-bylaws.pdf "Download the approved bylaws as PDF")

BYLAW I - NAME
---

The name of this organization shall be the Kalamazoo Section
(hereinafter referred to as the “Section”) of the AMERICAN CHEMICAL
SOCIETY (hereinafter referred to as the “SOCIETY”).

BYLAW II - OBJECTS
---

Section 1. The general objects of the Section shall include those of
the SOCIETY as stated in the Constitution of the SOCIETY.

Section 2. The specific objects of the Section are to encourage the
advancement of chemistry in all its branches; and by its meetings,
reports, papers, discussions, and publications, to promote scientific
interests and inquiry.

Section 3. Nothing in these bylaws shall be inconsistent with the Charter, Constitution, and Bylaws
of the SOCIETY.

BYLAW III - TERRITORY
---
The territory of the Section shall be that assigned to it by the SOCIETY.

BYLAW IV - ORGANIZATION
---

Section 1. The rolls of the Section shall include those MEMBERS,
STUDENT MEMBERS, and Society Affiliates of the SOCIETY residing within
the territory of the Section, provided that exceptions to this rule
may be made in conformity with the Constitution and Bylaws of the
SOCIETY.

Section 2. The Section may have Local Section Affiliates as authorized
by the Constitution and Bylaws of the SOCIETY.

Section 3. MEMBERS, STUDENT MEMBERS, Society Affiliates, and Local
Section Affiliates shall have such rights and privileges as provided
by the Constitution and Bylaws of the SOCIETY.  Society Affiliates and
Local Section Affiliates may not vote for officers or serve on the
Executive Committee of the Section or vote on Articles of
Incorporation and bylaws of the Section.

BYLAW V - OFFICERS AND COUNCILORS
---

Section 1. The officers of the Section shall be a Chair, a
Chair-Elect, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and the Immediate Past Chair.

Section 2. The offices of Secretary and Treasurer may be combined.

Section 3. The Section shall have Councilor(s) and Alternate
Councilor(s) as provided by the Constitution and Bylaws of the
SOCIETY. Only MEMBERS of the Section may serve as Councilors and
Alternate Councilors.

Section 4. Only MEMBERS of the Section shall be eligible to hold an
elective position.

Section 5. The Section shall have an Executive Committee consisting of
the officers, Councilors, and Alternate Councilors.

BYLAW VI - TERMS OF OFFICE
---

Section 1. The Chair-Elect of the Section shall be elected for a term
of one year, which is followed by one year as Chair, and which is
subsequently followed by one year as Immediate Past Chair.

Section 2. The Secretary and Treasurer of the Section shall be elected
every other year for a term of two years, provided that the elections
of the Secretary and Treasurer shall not be in the same year.

Section 3. The Chair-Elect, the Secretary, and the Treasurer so
elected shall serve the term of their respective offices and further
serve until their successors qualify.

Section 4. The Councilor(s) and Alternate Councilor(s) shall be
elected by the members of the Section for a term of three years. The
elections shall be conducted to minimize overlap of terms.

Section 5. All elected officials shall take office January 1 of the
year following their election.

Section 6. Any vacancy in an elected Section office, except Chair, due
to death, resignation, or refusal or inability to serve, shall be
filled by appointment of the Executive Committee for the period up to
the next annual election. In the event of a vacancy in the office of
Chair, the Immediate Past Chair will resume the office of Chair until
July 1 if willing and able to serve. The Chair-Elect will succeed to
Chair as of that date, or earlier if the Immediate Past Chair is
unable to serve and fill the remainder of the term of the Chair, and
continue in office to serve out the full term for which that
individual was elected. That individual will remain acting Chair as
provided in these bylaws until a new Chair-Elect takes office. Any
vacancy in the position of Councilor or Alternate Councilor shall be
filled in accordance with the SOCIETY’s Bylaws.

BYLAW VII - ELECTIONS
---

Section 1. The Executive Committee or a Nomination Committee chosen by
the Executive Committee and chaired by the Chair-Elect shall meet no
later than the second week of September to select and secure the
consent of one or more nominees for each elective position to be
filled.

Section 2. The Secretary, or other member of the Section designated by
the Chair, shall prepare an election ballot on which shall appear the
names, in order chosen by lot, of all candidates willing to serve.

Section 3 By the second week in October, the Secretary shall
distribute to each member the election ballot. All ballots cast shall
be returned to the Secretary according to the instructions contained
with the ballot. In accordance with SOCIETY’s Constitution and Bylaws,
balloting procedures should meet the requirements of (1) fair
balloting that is open to all eligible voting members, (2) anonymity,
(3) protection against fraudulent balloting, (4) ballot archiving, and
(5) the timely reporting and archiving of balloting results.

Section 4. The Chair shall appoint as Tellers two or more members who
are not candidates for office.

Section 5. The ballot system will contain provisions for confirming
votes were received from members on the official list. The Secretary
will be responsible for confirming the ballots were received from
members on the official list. Unconfirmed ballots will be marked VOID
and reported to the Tellers.

Section 6. The Tellers shall count the valid ballots and report the vote tally
to the Chair and Secretary. The candidate who received the highest
number of votes from the ballots cast will be declared the winner.

Section 7. In case of a tie vote for any elective position, the
Executive Committee shall select from among the tied candidates.

Section 8. Elections for all offices shall be completed and the
results certified to the Executive Director of the SOCIETY by December
1 for Councilor and Alternate Councilor and promptly for other elected
offices, as required by the Constitution and Bylaws of the SOCIETY.

Section 9. Elections shall be completed and the results certified to
the Executive Director of the SOCIETY by December 1, as required by
the Constitution and Bylaws of the SOCIETY.

Section 10. The Secretary, or other member of the Section designated
by the Chair, shall retain all valid ballots for at least ninety days
after either the announcement of the results to the membership or
until any disputes have been resolved, whichever is later.

BYLAW VIII - RECALL ELECTIONS
---

Section 1. The elected officers of the Section are subject
to recall for neglect of duties or conduct injurious to the SOCIETY.

Section 2. The recall of an officer shall be initiated when a signed
petition, indicating in writing the specific charges and reasonable
substantiating evidence, is submitted to the Chair from at least five
voting members of the Section. In the event the Chair is the officer
in question, the Immediate Past Chair (up to July 1) or Chair-Elect
(on or after July 1) shall receive the petition and shall assume the
duties of the office of Chair with respect to this issue until the
issue is resolved.

Section 3. The Chair shall without delay determine
that the petitioners are aware of the gravity of their actions and the
procedures to be followed. The Chair shall seek an alternate
resolution to the problem and a withdrawal of the petition at this
time. In the absence of a resolution to the problem, the Chair shall
present the issue to the Executive Committee as a new business item at
the next Executive Committee meeting.

1. The Executive Committee shall promptly continue the recall process or dismiss the petition as ill-founded or find an alternative solution to the problem. The Chair shall promptly inform the petitioners and the officer of the decision of the Executive Committee.
2. If the proceedings continue, the Chair shall assign the duties of the officer to another qualified member of the Section until the issue is resolved.
3. If the proceedings continue, the officer shall be offered an opportunity to answer the allegations in the petition before the Executive Committee.  Every reasonable effort shall be made to contact the officer throughout this procedure. That effort shall include a certified letter to the last known address on the official SOCIETY membership rolls. Upon notification, the officer shall have thirty days to make a written response to the allegations. The Executive Committee shall decide whether to proceed after studying the officer’s response. The Chair shall inform the officer and the petitioners of the decision of the Executive Committee.  If no contact with the officer can be made after a reasonable effort, the Executive Committee may remove the officer in question with a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the remaining members of the Executive Committee.
4. If the proceedings continue, the officer shall choose one of the following options:
   1. The officer may resign.
   2. The officer may request a recall vote in the same manner as the original election, which must be consistent with the Section bylaws. The voting membership shall be 4 informed, through brief written statements prepared by the Executive Committee and the officer, of the issues involved with the recall vote. Both statements shall be given to the voting membership before the vote is taken.
   3. The officer may request a hearing and a recall vote by the remaining members of the Executive Committee. A two-thirds (2/3) vote of the remaining members of the Executive Committee shall be required to recall the officer.
   4. The officer may choose not to respond and thus forfeit the position.

Section 4. The vacancy provisions of these
bylaws shall be used to fill a vacancy caused by a recall process. The
membership of the Section and the Executive Director of the SOCIETY
shall be informed of the results of the recall process and the
replacement of the officer.

BYLAW IX - DUTIES OF OFFICERS
---

Section 1. The duties of the officers shall be such as usually pertain
to their offices plus any others required by the Constitution and
Bylaws of the SOCIETY and any others assigned from time to time by the
Executive Committee. The Chair-Elect in addition shall be Chair of the
Nomination Committee if formed by the Executive Committee.

Section 2. The Treasurer shall be bonded in a suitable manner if,
when, and as the Executive Committee so provides.

Section 3. It shall be the duty of the Chair to preside at meetings of
the Executive Committee, to carry into effect the decisions and
recommendations of that Committee, to preside at business meetings of
the Section, to appoint all committees, and to carry out all those
duties required by the Constitution and Bylaws of the SOCIETY. In the
absence of the Chair, the duties of the office shall devolve upon the
Chair-Elect.

Section 4. The Treasurer shall receive and deposit all funds paid to
the Section in the name of the Section and shall disburse funds of the
Section with checks as so authorized by the Executive Committee per
the approved budget or as specifically authorized by a majority vote
of the Executive Committee.

Section 5. Details of duties of officers and of Section operations
shall be specified, accumulated, and kept up to date in an Operations
Manual to be maintained by the Secretary or such alternate as may be
designated by the Executive Committee. Changes in the Operations
Manual shall require approval of a majority of the Executive
Committee. The Operations Manual shall be available for inspection by
members of the Section.

BYLAW X - COMMITTEES AND THEIR DUTIES
---

Section 1. The Executive Committee shall have charge of the affairs,
funds, budget, and property of the Section and of all other matters
not otherwise provided for in these bylaws.

Section 2. Such other committees as may be necessary for the proper
conduct of the affairs of the Section and not otherwise provided for
in these bylaws shall be appointed from time to time by the Chair.

BYLAW XI - MEETINGS
---

Section 1. The Section shall meet regularly upon due notice at such
times and places as may suit its convenience, provided that at least
two meetings open to the general membership of the Section shall be
held in each calendar year.

Section 2. The Section shall have special meetings upon the request of
a majority of the Executive Committee or upon the request of at least
15 members of the Section. The calls for special meetings shall recite
the exact nature of the business intended to be transacted, and no
other business shall transpire at such meetings.

Section 3. A quorum for regular and special meetings of the Section
shall consist of 15 members of the Section. In the absence of a
quorum, regular and special meetings shall adjourn to a later date
within six weeks of the originally scheduled date.

Section 4. The Executive Committee shall meet upon due notice at such
times and places as may suit its convenience, upon call of the Chair
or upon request of a majority of its members. The order of business
shall be such as the Executive Committee provides from time to time.

Section 5. A quorum for an Executive Committee meeting shall consist
of a majority of the members of the Committee. In the absence of a
quorum, the meeting shall adjourn to a later date within two weeks of
the originally scheduled date.

Section 6. At regular meetings of the Section the order of business
shall generally be as follows:

1. Minutes of previous meeting
2. Reports of officers
3. Reports of committees
4. Miscellaneous business
5. Reading of papers
6. Adjournment

Section 7. The order of business at a regular meeting may be suspended
by a majority vote of the members present.

Section 8. The rules of order in the conduct of Section meetings not
specifically provided in these bylaws or in the SOCIETY’s documents
shall be the most recent edition of *Robert’s Rules of Order Newly
Revised*.

BYLAW XII - FINANCES
---

Section 1. All members (excluding those who are also emeritus members
of the SOCIETY) and Society Affiliates may be requested to pay
voluntarily such annual local dues as the Executive Committee may
determine.

Section 2. The annual dues of Local Section Affiliates shall be set by
the Executive Committee but shall not be less than the minimum amount
provided in the Constitution and Bylaws of the SOCIETY, and failure to
pay such dues in advance shall terminate such affiliation.

Section 3. The raising and collecting of funds other than dues may be
provided by suitable resolution adopted at an Executive Committee or a
regular or special meeting of the Section by a majority vote of the
members present and voting, subject to the provisions of the
Constitution and Bylaws of the SOCIETY.

Section 4. Donations or bequests of funds or property may be accepted
by suitable resolution adopted at an Executive Committee or regular or
special meeting of the Section by a majority vote of the members
present, subject to the provisions of the Constitution and Bylaws of
the SOCIETY.

Section 5. The Executive Committee shall establish an approved budget
outlining expenditures for Section programs for each calendar year
(beginning January 1 and ending December 31) and will append the
approved budget to the minutes of the Executive Committee meeting of
December of each calendar year preceding the year in which the budget
is applicable. The budget shall be developed based on written, signed,
and dated proposals submitted to the Executive Committee by committee
chairs, members, Society Affiliates, Local Section Affiliates or other
persons whose program requests are consistent with the objects of the
Section. The annual budget for the following year will be approved at
a December Executive Committee meeting. The Executive Committee is
charged with approving amendments to the budget and with noting these
amendments within the minutes of subsequent Executive Committee
meetings. The budget is recommended to include approved expenditure
commensurate with anticipated income and current reserves.

BYLAW XIII - DISSOLUTION
---

Upon the dissolution of the Local Section, any assets of the Section
remaining thereafter shall be conveyed to such organization then
existent, within or without the territory of the Local Section, as is
dedicated to the perpetuation of objects similar to those of the
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, or to the AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY, so
long as whichever organization is selected by the governing body of
the Local Section at the time of dissolution shall be exempt under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended or
under such successor provision of the Code as may be in effect at the
time of the Section’s dissolution.

BYLAW XIV - AMENDMENTS TO BYLAWS
---

Section 1. These bylaws may be amended in the following manner:

1. That the proposed amendment shall have been first submitted in writing to the Executive Committee and shall have been evaluated by the members of that Committee.
2. That the members of the Section shall be notified of the proposed amendment and the reasons for said amendment being considered. Members will be provided thirty days to comment on the proposed amendments.
3. If a dispute arises regarding approval of said amendment, the Executive Committee may resolve the issue by majority vote of the Committee after hearing discussion of the issue at a regular meeting of the Section, or the Committee may decide to hold a special election to resolve it.
4. After the meeting of the Section at which the amendment has been presented and approved for a vote by the Executive Committee, the Section Secretary shall send the proposed bylaw amendment(s) to the SOCIETY’s Committee on Constitution and Bylaws for review. After receipt of the review, the Executive Committee will then make appropriate changes, if necessary. If the Committee has determined a special election was necessary to approve the proposed amendments, the Secretary shall distribute to all Section members a special election ballot that includes a suitable explanation of the amendment(s) and that twenty days thereafter, shall close the voting and count all valid ballots received.
5. That at least two-thirds (2/3) of votes cast shall be required to approve the amendment.

Section 2. The Secretary shall make suitable report of the outcome of
the ballot regarding the amendment for the next regular meeting of the
Section and thereafter within one month to the SOCIETY.

Section 3. Amendments to these bylaws shall become effective upon
approval by the Committee on Constitution and Bylaws, acting for the
Council of the SOCIETY, unless a later date is specified.
