---
layout: page
title: Excerpt from a letter from Madeleine Jacobs
---

Excerpt from “A Letter from Madeleine Jacobs”
===

*ACS Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer*

(Reprinted with permission from the Dec. 2011 Councilor Bulletin)

In this challenging economy, ACS is committed to increasing the value
of your ACS membership. In the next few weeks, many of you will be
receiving ACS dues renewal notices. Now, more than ever, ACS is here
to support you—whether you are a student member, a young scientist
embarking on your career journey, a mid-career scientist fully
employed, a scientist in transition, or a revered emeritus member. ACS
is your professional home at every stage of your career and your life.

I would like to share with you the reasons why your investment in ACS
brings you invaluable returns.

Let me start with ACS career and professional education programs.
Nearly every person knows someone who is unemployed or
underemployed. ACS has had a large suite of career services for its
members for many years—the largest and most comprehensive of any
scientific society. This year, we created new programs to assist
unemployed members and new resources for all members. One of those new
initiatives was showcased at the ACS National Meeting in Denver—the
first fully integrated onsite and virtual career fair, which offered
job seekers and virtual participants via webcam the opportunity to
interact with each other and to connect with prospective employers and
programs to sharpen their career skills.  ACS also features career
fairs and workshops at its regional meetings.

ACS members have exclusive access to ACS Career Consultants for
advice, C&EN employment ads/postings for two weeks, and ACS Leadership
Development Courses. ACS members receive advance notices about weekly
ACS Webinars featuring experts in career and professional development
and technical topics. The ACS Professional Education program offers
member discounts and, in 2012, free online courses and free short
courses for unemployed ACS members in good standing. For more
information about creative ways ACS is Page 2 of 3 helping members’
careers, please see ACS President Nancy B. Jackson’s ACS Comment,
“Paying It Forward on Jobs: Members Helping Members” (C&EN, Aug. 8,
page 52).

ACS is also focusing its attention on creating jobs. Most job growth
in the U.S. is now coming from small companies and start-ups. In
Denver, ACS released the report from the ACS Task Force on Innovation
appointed by Immediate Past President Dr. Joseph Francisco to develop
recommendations on how ACS can help create U.S.-based jobs for
chemists by increasing opportunities for entrepreneurs. The report
titled “Innovation, Chemistry, and Jobs” is available at
[www.acs.org/CreatingJobs](http://www.acs.org/CreatingJobs "Innovation, Chemistry and Jobs report").
One of those recommendations has been funded by the ACS Board of
Directors for a two year pilot to train and serve
entrepreneurs. Beginning in January 2012, ACS members will have
exclusive access to valuable training and access to a newly created
ACS Entrepreneurial Resources Center that will provide essential
services to creating, launching, and growing startups.

We have other major new member benefits for 2012. One of the most
exciting is Universal Member Access— free access to 25 articles or
book chapters of your choice from our 41 ACS Journals, ACS Symposium
Series, and C&EN Archives. Together, they comprise more than 1 million
articles and book chapters—providing an unparalleled range of
peer-reviewed scientific literature. Members will be able to search
and browse all ACS journals, books, and the C&EN archives, and members
who want additional article downloads will have low-cost and
discounted purchase options. Individual web journals are available at
exceptional value, only $85 a journal.

A subscription to the world’s leading chemical newsmagazine, C&EN,
delivered in print or electronically, is a benefit of ACS membership,
and all members have free access to C&EN Online
[cenonline.org](cenonline.org "C&EN website"). All members also now
have free access to complete issues of C&EN on the C&EN Mobile app for
smartphones and tablets (more information is available at
[cenmobile.org](cenmobile.org "C&EN Mobile Website").

Members also receive substantial registration discounts to the two
national meetings and all regional meetings, thus providing access to
a global network of thought-leading, resourceful colleagues and their
shared wisdom. Beginning with the spring 2012 ACS San Diego national
meeting, online access to approximately 500 recorded presentations
will be free to members who attend the meeting; members who cannot
attend the national meetings will received a 75% discount compared to
nonmembers.

These are just a few of the direct returns to you from
your investment in ACS. In addition to these benefits of membership, I
often hear from members that they are proud that ACS provides
scholarships to high school and college students and to aspiring or
existing high school chemistry teachers, as well as curriculum
materials at all grade levels. They are proud that ACS is the
collective voice of the chemistry practitioner advancing our
profession’s concerns at the global, national, state, and local
level. They are proud that ACS is the leader in green chemistry and
engineering through the ACS Green Chemistry Institute. And they are
proud that ACS is the recognized leader in promoting the value and
usefulness of chemistry to the general public.

The easiest way to renew your membership is online. But if you have
questions about your dues renewal, please call Member Services, where
dedicated, long-serving ACS staff will assist you with your
questions. You may contact them at 800-333-9511 or send an email to
[service@acs.org](mailto:service@acs.org "E-mail ACS Member Service").

I hope you agree that your investment in ACS will bring ongoing
returns by helping you become an even more informed chemistry
practitioner and an effective leader at your workplace. I look forward
to signing your membership card for 2012!”
