---
title: Regional Meetings History – their historical development and importance
layout: about_page
---

Regional Meetings History
===
Their Historical Development and Importance
---

In the mid-1940s, when travel was a bit more cumbersome than it seems
to be today, and The War (WWII) interrupted a National Meeting,
chemists within the American Chemical Society decided to join
informally with others in proximal geographical areas to host meetings
featuring presenters from academia and industry within that area so
that those who might not be able to attend a National meeting could
have a way of presenting their work in a professional environment at
lesser expense than at a National Meeting. In this way 10 Regions*
were formed in the “Lower 48”– that is how our Region, the Great Lakes
Region (GLR), was formed (see map below). Meetings were held on
University campuses to keep participants’ costs to a minimum. With the
increasing desire for comfort, air-conditioned hotels became an
increasingly-used venue; as corporate donations waxed and waned, to
help fund the meetings a larger exposition was also incorporated, and
hotels included available space which took into account the needs of
exhibitors for more visibility and easier access to participants in a
frequently-traveled location.

Such meetings were more accessible to graduate and undergraduate
students, younger faculty members and to those in industry who had
modest travel support; they also provided valuable networking
possibilities to the participants. Over the years the importance and
prestige of presenting at Regional meetings in our Region has
paralleled the content of the program selected by each Program
committee and the “name” of the presenters invited to give seminars
and organize symposia. Teaching and Volunteer Awards are given at
Regional Meetings, and in the last 5-10 years meeting abstracts (oral
and poster) which are presented, are archived in the CAS database just
like they are for National Meetings. With the smaller size of Regional
Meetings program planning and execution is more “nimble”. Currently,
the National ACS Office offers the services of a staff member to help
in several aspects of the organization of a Regional Meeting but
primarily in the registration and the abstract-gathering processes.

Our Kalamazoo Section hosted its first Great Lakes Regional meeting
(GLRM) on the WMU campus in 1973 with Robert B. Moffett as General
Chairman; our second meeting was also on the WMU campus under the
General Chairmanship of Lydia Hines in 1984 – it was a Joint Meeting
with the Western Michigan Section (Central Region); we have since
co-hosted two more Joint Meetings, in 1994 with the Huron Valley
Section (Central Region) in Ann Arbor (Jed Fisher was our
representative program co-chair) and in 2001 with the Western Michigan
Section (Central Region) in Grand Rapids (Brian Stockman was our
representative general co-chair).

The GLR was the last to become incorporated, in 2009 at the GLR
Meeting in Chicago. In an effort to maintain a schedule of annual
Regional Meetings, our Region’s Board of Directors (one representative
from each Local Section in the GLR – KACS’s representative for the
last 27 years has been Lydia Hines) is considering assigning Sections,
based on size and location so as to distribute the responsibility
equitably, to act as hosts or co-hosts for a Regional Meeting. [KACS
has been tentatively assigned to act as host (or co-host) in 2017].

Support of Regional Meetings by our attendance and/or hosting or
co-hosting is very important if this more intimate venue of networking
and professional development is to continue. The importance to the ACS
of such smaller and more intimate meetings has grown as we seek to
reach our younger constituents and the general public.

*Northwestern, Rocky Mountain, Great Lakes, Central, Northeastern,
 Mid-Atlantic, Southeastern, Midwestern, Southwestern, Western (see
 map below).

Map of Meeting Regions:

![Map of ACS Regions]({{ site.url }}/images/regions-map.png "Map of ACS Regions")

Compiled by Lydia Hines - August 2011
