---
layout: about_page
category: councilor-report
name: Spring ACS National Meeting
location: New Orleans, Louisiana
dates: 2013-04-07 to 2013-04-11
---

# Actions of the Council

## Election Results

The Committee on Nominations and Elections presented to the Council
four nominees for selection as candidates for President-Elect, 2014:
the Council selected **G. Bryan Balazs** and **Charles E. Kolb Jr.** as
candidates for 2014 President-Elect. These two candidates, along with
any candidates selected via petitions, will stand for election in the
Fall National Election.

The Committee on Nominations and Elections announced that **George
M. Bodner** and **Alan A. Hazari** had been selected by Councilors of
District II as candidates from whom one will be selected by members of
vDistrict II to serve as Director for the term 2014-2016. Ballots will
be mailed on or before October 10 to all ACS members in District II.

## Committee Review

As part of a regular performance review, the Council voted unanimously
to continue the Committees on Chemical Abstracts Service,
Environmental Improvement, and Younger Chemists.

## Re-alignment of Electoral Districts

At the 2012 fall meeting, Councilors called for a broader and
long-lasting solution to requirements that **Board electoral districts
have parity in member populations**. At this meeting, the Committee on
Nominations and Elections reported on their discussions of a revised
redistricting proposal which brings all six election districts within
400-1,000 members of the mid-point of the permissible range. This
proposed action is designed to eliminate the need for frequent small
changes for some time to come. The proposal will be up for vote at the
fall Council meeting in Indianapolis. **The Kalamazoo Section was
moved from District II to District V in this realignment**.

## Officers' Reports

Past-president Bassam Shakhashiri announced that the report of his
*Task Force on Graduate Education* has been well received by both
academic institutions and funding agencies.

Shakhashiri's call for grant applications to disseminate the
information of the Climate Science Tool Kit brought in a good number
of applications and 11 were funded (**Our Section's proposal was one
of those funded**)

Among the initiatives being emphasized by President-Elect Thomas
Barton during his year as President (2014) will be an effort to
improve the deplorable state of US K-12 education and the pursuit of
International collaborations.

There will be a Presidential symposium on Fracking at the San
Francisco Meeting in the Fall of 2014

## Society Finances

Despite the sluggish economy, ACS generated favorable operating
results in 2012. This was largely attributable to better-than-expected
performance by ACS Publications and Chemical Abstracts Service..

## 2014 Member Dues

The Council voted to set the member **dues for 2014** at the fully
escalated rate of **$154**. This rate is established using a formula
described in the Constitution and Bylaws, taking the Consumer Price
Index for service industries into consideration. ACS dues remain at
the midpoint or slightly lower than dues of similar organizations.


## Member Statistics

Society membership at the end of 2012 was 163,322, 893 lower than the
total for year-end 2011 despite recruiting 24,943 new members. The net
loss occurred primarily in the Regular, full member category with
members seemingly unaware of the value of their membership. There was
continued growth in both the Student Member undergraduate and
international categories.

## Meeting Attendance Report

The ACS spring national meeting attracted **15,596 registrants**,
including 8,105 regular attendees and 5,793 students. The meeting had
11,232 papers presented.

## Local Section Activities

The Council voted to approve a **new formula for the distribution of
allocations to individual Local Sections beginning in 2014**. The new
allocation will be divided as follows: base allotment (49%); per
member allotment (43%), and 8% for LSAC program funds (IPGs, Science
Caf&eacute; and other Mini-grants).

Only 170/187 Local Sections submitted their Annual Report by the
deadline.

## International Chemical Sciences Chapters

The Council voted to approve the petition to charter the Romanian
International Chemical Sciences Chapter, consisting of the Territory
of Romania.

## Special Discussion Item

A special discussion item was put on the Council agenda for this
meeting. ACS President Marinda Li Wu presented and moderated a
discussion on *What else should ACS do to help members to thrive in
the global chemistry enterprise?* ACS has established a strategic goal
to "Empower an inclusive community of members with networks,
opportunities, resources, and skills to thrive in the global economy."
In support of this goal, President Wu commissioned a task force
entitled, *Vision 2025: Helping ACS Members Thrive in the Global
Chemistry Enterprise*, to identify globalization opportunities and
engage members in advocacy for improving the business and job
climate. Following the presentation, 29 Councilors engaged in a
discussion on what the Society currently offers or could offer to help
members thrive in the global chemistry community; recommendations
included recommending tax modification in the US, encouragement of
younger chemists to promote the profession using social media,
encouraging more entrepreneurship, among others.

# Selected Actions of the Board of Directors

The Board voted to approve an alliance with the Latin American
Federation of Chemical Associations (FLAQ) and to renew an alliance
with the Chinese Chemical Society. The signing ceremony for alliances
with the Chinese Chemical Society and the South African Chemical
Institute (which was previously approved) took place prior to the open
meeting of the Board of Directors. The signing ceremony for FLAQ will
take place at the fall national meeting.

The Board received a briefing from the new director of the ACS Green
Chemistry Institute®, and a report on the newly instituted ACS Career
Pathways™ Workshops.

The Board held a lively, well-attended open session which featured a
special forum focused on two questions: 1) What one thing would you
like from ACS that you don't get now? 2) What one thing do you get
from another organization that you wish you got from ACS? Members
attending this standing-room only session received a brief overview of
current Society offerings followed by an exchange of several ideas on
future services and products.

Lydia E. M. Hines<br />
KACS Councilor