---
layout: about_page
category: councilor-report
name: Spring ACS National Meeting
location: Orlando, Florida
dates: 2019-03-31 to 2019-04-04
---

# 257th ACS National Meeting

<p class="author">By Lydia Hines</p>

### Candidates for President-Elect, 2020

By electronic ballot, the Council selected **H.N. Cheng** and **Carol
A. Duane** as **candidates for 2020 President-Elect**. These two
candidates, along with any candidates selected via petitions, will
stand for election in the Fall National Election.

### Candidates for Directors-at-Large

The Committee on Nominations and Elections announced the selection of
the following **candidates for Directors-at-Large** for 2020-2022
terms: **Harmon B. Abrahamson**, **G. Bryan Balazs**, **D. Richard
Cobb**, and **Dorothy J. Phillips**. The election of two
Directors-at-Large from among these four candidates and any selected
via petition will be conducted in the fall.

### Amendment to the ACS Constitution and Bylaws

The Council approved the Petition to Streamline the ACS Governing
Documents [Constitution Articles I-XIX, Bylaws I-XIV, and Standing
Rules I-IX], which will reorganize the fundamental governing documents
of the Society: the Constitution and Bylaws, and create a third
document: Standing Rules. These three documents will function as a
hierarchy. The Constitution should define; the Bylaws should
authorize; and the Standing Rules should operationalize. Additionally,
an Amendment was voted upon, and passed by recorded vote:

That language proposed as Standing Rule II, Sections 2 a, 2 b, and 2 g
be moved to the Bylaws as new Sections 2 a, 2 b, and 2 c of proposed
Bylaw III with appropriate renumbering of the other sections of Bylaw
III and Standing Rule II.

The Petition will become effective if and when the proposed changes to
the Constitution are approved by the Membership of the Society, and if
and when the Board of Directors approves the Petition. Because the
changes to the ACS Governing Documents are substantial, the Council
authorized the ACS Secretary and General Counsel and the Committee on
Constitution & Bylaws to correct minor technical mistakes in the
Petition.

### Council Special Discussion

ACS President Bonnie Charpentier led a special discussion on ACS
Relevance to Current and Future Members: Challenges and
Opportunities. Councilors provided many recommendations and
suggestions including increased support for local sections and
industry members, helping student members transition into their
professional careers, and implementing a monthly payment tool for ACS
dues.  These, and all the other ideas and input submitted, will be
shared with the Committee on Membership Affairs and the ACS Membership
Division for further research or implementation.

### 2020 Member Dues

The Council voted on the recommendation of the Committee on Budget and
Finance (B&amp;F) to set the **member dues for 2020 at the 2019 rate of
$175**.

### Councilor Divisor

As required by the Society's Bylaws, the Council Policy Committee has
set the divisors for allocation of Councilor seats among Local
Sections and Divisions for 2020 to 2023. Official notification of the
Councilor divisors and the **number of Councilors permitted for each
Local Section and Division will be sent to the respective Local
Sections and Divisions prior to May 1st** as required in the Bylaws.

### Nominations and Elections 

The Committee on Nominations and Elections solicits Councilors’ input
regarding qualified individuals for President-Elect and/or Directors
for future consideration.  Suggestions may be sent to
[nomelect@acs.org](mailto:nomelect@acs.org).

### Budget and Finance

In 2018, ACS generated a net from operations of $41.1 million, which
was $13.3 million higher than 2017.  Total revenues were $571.6
million, increasing 6.4% - or $34.2 million - over 2017.  Expenses
ended the year at $530.5 million, which was $20.8 million or 4.1%
higher than the prior year.  These results were attributable to
**strong performance from the Society’s Information Service units (CAS
and ACS Publications) and a continued emphasis on expense management
across the ACS**.

Additional information can be found at the [ACS Financial
Information](https://www.acs.org/content/acs/en/about/aboutacs/financial.html)
page. There you will find several years of the Society’s audited
financial statements and IRS 990 filings.

### Membership

The **ACS ended 2018 with 151,012 members**, a net membership growth
of one-tenth-of-one-percent.

### Orlando Meeting Attendance

As of Tuesday, April 2:


<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <td>Attendees</td>
    <td>7,887</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Students</td>
    <td>6,019</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Exhibitors</td>
    <td>869</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Expo only</td>
    <td>404</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Guests</td>
    <td>426</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Total</th>
    <th>15,605</th>
  </tr>
</table>


## Actions of the Board of Directors

On the recommendation of the Joint Board-Council Committee on
Publications, the Board voted to approve the reappointments of
Editors-in-Chief for several ACS journals.

The co-chair of the Next Generation ACS Leadership Program Task Force
gave an update on the efforts of the task force. The task force has
reviewed and considered the history of ACS leadership efforts since
1965 in preparation for offering key considerations and principles for
providing ACS members with the means to develop as individuals,
professionals and ACS volunteers. Next steps include continuing to
gather feedback from various ACS entities and constituencies, and to
develop a framework for professional development that is reflective of
the ACS core values (focus on members; professionalism; diversity,
inclusion and respect; and safety and ethics).

### The Executive Director/CEO Report

The Executive Director and CEO briefed the Board on issues relating to
the Focus on Members as a core value of the Society as well on ACS
financial performance, Operational Excellence, and upcoming events and
activities.

### Contact the Board

Your Board of Directors is elected by and acts in the best interests
of the members of the Society.  Please contact them with your
comments, concerns, ideas, and suggestions at
[secretary@acs.org](mailto:secretary@acs.org).
