---
category: minutes
layout: minutes
location: Hunan Gardens - 18:30
---

1. **Secretary’s Report**
  1. *Review of December 2012 Minutes* – Minutes were approved by the Executive Committee (EC). 
2. **Treasurer’s Report**
  1. *Treasurers Report* - JM distributed the monthly treasurer’s report. The AAAS donation for last 
November’s Dance Event was received. The report was approved.
  2. *Investment Fund/Checking Account Update* – JM reported that he must file a federal tax return 
for 2012 to retrieve taxes withheld from our investment funds. He will follow up with Vanguard to 
ensure that taxes are not withheld again next year by filing necessary paperwork.
3. **Communications Chair**
  1. *Web site report* – No report.
  2. *Facebook Page* – No report.
4. **Western Michigan University and Kalamazoo College Chemistry Student Organizations**
  1. Kalamazoo College – JA reported that 9 Kalamazoo College students participated in the “Battle 
of the Chem Clubs” and emerged as winners; he will submit a report and pictures for the next 
Newsletter. Students also attended the career event and brought their “Battle” trophy.
  2. MZ reported that the Chem Club made slime with 300 students at an Otsego school. The Chem 
Club is holding a bake sale for Fat Tuesday. Club members Emelia Moore and Evan Rasor 
volunteered to prepare refreshmentsfor the career event.
  3. WMU Chemistry Grad Student Association – The CGSA had a poster at the Boost Your Career 
event and several members attended.
  4. NOBCChE – NOBCChE had a display at the career event.
5. **Old Business**
  1. Online “volunteer” document – This has been posted online (complete).
  2. Bylaws review meeting – DW has not organized a meeting yet. JE has agreed to arrange a meeting 
for the executive committee.
  3. Boost Your Career Event review – ES reported that the event went well, with 50 attendees. 
Feedback indicated that the leadership presentation by Dr. Obare was very informative. All 
affiliated student organizations presented posters for the event.
  4. February Science Café (February 20) – Final details are coming together. JE explained his 
intentions for the talk. He will send a title and description to ES in time for email distribution (see 
below). Pizza and drinks will be ordered.
  5. *March tour speaker* (Dr. Hazari) – Preparations for this event are on schedule.
  6. *Do-Dah Parade* – ES has the entry form from Joel Colburn for 2012. In 2013, deadline is likely May
     1. The parade is scheduled for Saturday, June 8.
  7. *Chemistry and Culture: Food and Cooking* – DW reported on the prospects for hosting an event at 
the Can Do Kitchen (limit of 20 persons). This seems too small for our intentions. ES proposed 
postponing the event until the fall (ca. September) to coincide with the beginning of the semester and 
to allow for more preparation. This was generally agreeable to the EC members. DW and ES will 
continue to evaluate and suggest additional options.
6. **New Business**
   1. *Education Committee Updates*
      1. James Kiddle was not able to attend our meeting to discuss the
current approach to identifying outstanding high school teachers. This
is postponed until the next meeting.
      2. James Kiddle has mailed requests to high school teachers to determine participation in this year’s
competitive exam.
      3. DS reported that the annual high school science symposium will be on Apr 30. 
      4. DS also indicated that we will host three SEED students in 2013 (two Summer II students, one 
Summer I student). Mentors have been identified.
   2. *Earth Day* – MZ has contacted the new outreach coordinator at the Kalamazoo Nature Center. She is 
seeking volunteers and ideas for demonstrations that can be performed. ES and LH are actively 
assisting with ideas for content.
   3. *Poster event 2013* – ES reported that John Wendt confirmed that funding was once again approved
from Pfizer. The event is planned tentatively for late in the year (Nov. or Dec.).
   4. *FORMS* – Annual Report. Financial report was completed by JM and has been approved, and 
submitted for review by LSAC, by LH. ES asked about expectations for attaching descriptions, 
comments, etc. on activities. She also asked for recommendations of national awards for which we 
might want to self-nominate. LH, DW and JM offered to review the list of awards and activities and 
respond promptly.
   5. *ACS redistricting* – LH reported that the Committee on Nominations and Elections has reviewed 
district membership levels and is proposing that the Kalamazoo Section be moved from District II to 
District V to assist with rebalancing the Districts. LH felt that we were and will be well represented 
in either district and saw no reason to object to our reassignment. Committee members were invited 
to send concerns or comments to her before the spring meeting in New Orleans.
   6. *ACS Leadership Conference summary* – JE described his participation. He enjoyed the opportunity 
to convene with leaders from other sections and has already been recruited to present a talk on 
patents in the Detroit area. JE will write a short report for the next Newsletter.
   7. *Next PR Email* – David Bolliet recommended sending an email invitation in advance of our Science 
Café event (Feb 20). We will ask David to send this to the local membership on Feb 13. We will 
also add “save the date” notes for other upcoming events.
   8. Next meeting was tentatively set for Thursday, March 7 (first choice) or Tuesday, March 12 (second 
choice).
8. **Around the table**
LH reported that our ACS President-Elect Thomas Barton.
JM reported no response to the announcement for professional development grants. He suggested that 
we reassess our efforts to promote this benefit at the April meeting.
LH requested that discussion of our commitment to the 2015 Great Lakes & Central Joint Regional 
meeting should continue to be an Agenda Item.

The meeting was adjourned at 7:38 pm