---
vol: 7
issue: 4
layout: newsletter
category: newsletter
pdf-size: "361 KB"
---

<ul>
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url }}#comments-from-the-chair">Comments from the Chair</a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url }}#p3-award">KACS awards and nominations</a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url }}#awards-gathering">Annual Awards Gathering</a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url }}#cced">Report - Chemists Celebrate Earth Day</a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url }}#march-for-science">Report - March for Science</a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url }}#councilor-report">Report - National Meeting</a>
  </li>
  <li>
    <a href="{{ page.url }}#job-posting"><em>EHS and Quality</em> job posting</a>
  </li>
</ul>

<!-- more -->


# Comments from the Chair

<div class="chair-comments">
 <div class="comments-content col-md-8">
  <P class="author">By Steve Secreast</p>
  <dl>
   <dt>She blinded me with Science</dt>
   <dd>
	Which has shined bright enough in Kalamazoo this spring to
	inspire not just Thomas Dolby, but all of us. And KACS has
	been square in the middle of the action.</dd>
   <dt>Poetry in motion</dt>
   <dd>
	About 900 people joined in for the Kalamazoo March for Science
	on Earth Day (22 April). Doug Williams (KACS Alternate
	Counselor) was an invited speaker at the event, delivering
	very well received words that you can read in this
	newsletter.</dd>
   <dt>Elements in Harmony</dt>
   <dd>
	Lydia Hines (KACS Councilor), Greg Johnson (WMU Chem Club
	President) and the WMU Chem Club ran two KACS Chemists
	Celebrate Earth Day events again this year. One at Celery
	Flats (15 April) and the other at the Kalamazoo Nature Center
	(22 April) attended by hundreds of enthusiastic families.</dd>
   <dt>When I’m dancing close to her</dt>
   <dd>
	In addition this year, KACS was a sponsor and exhibitor at the
	Kalamazoo Earth Day Celebration in Bronson Park, where Tom
	Runge, Doug Williams and Steve Secreast had a great time
	running a chem demo where we had people aged 7 -70 doing
	chemistry.</dd>
   <dt>Deep as any ocean</dt>
   <dd>
	During April James Kiddle (KACS Education Committee) delivered
	the 36thannual KACS competitive chemistry exam to area high
	school students, the excellent results of which demonstrate
	that the future of chemistry in Kalamazoo is in very good
	hands.
   </dd>
   <dt>I can smell the chemicals</dt>
   <dd>
	This has truly been a bright spring for science and chemistry
	in Kalamazoo, and for KACS. I’m very much looking forward to
	our next events. Come on out and join the fun
   </dd>
  </dl>

  <p>
   Thanks,<br />
   Steve
  </p>
 </div>
 <div class="col-md-4">
  <img src="/images/people/secreast.jpg" />
  <p class="caption">Steve Secreast, Chair</p>
 </div>
</div>

<h1 id="p3-award">KACS is an Award Winner</h1>

The Regional Partners for Progress and Prosperity Award (P3) was
awarded to our Section and will be presented at the Great Lakes
Regional Meeting in Fargo, ND, on June 29. The ACS website states the
following about the P3 Award: The purpose of the P3 award is to
encourage and recognize successful and exemplary partnerships between
industry, academia, government, small business and/or other
organizations, including ACS local sections, ACS divisions, ACS
international chapters, other societies or various entities domestic
or overseas resulting in impactful outcomes in one or more of the
following categories:

<ul>
 <li>Improving  the  public  perception  and  appreciation  for chemistry</li>
 <li>Promoting career advancement opportunities and/or supporting
  entrepreneurship in the chemistry enterprise</li>
 <li>Advancing advocacy efforts with government and other thought leaders</li>
 <li>Supporting STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering &amp; Mathematics)
  education and/or research</li>
</ul>

Our thanks to Elke Schoffers for submitting the application!

# KACS is a finalist for two more awards!

KACS made it to the finals fornot just one, buttwo, 2016 ChemLuminary
awards! The categories for the two awards are "Outstanding On-going
NCW Event" and "Outstanding Performance by a Local Section (Medium
Size)". Finalists will present a poster showingcasing their event and/or
section at a poster session on Tuesday August at the 254th ACS
National Meeting in Washington, D.C. Winners will then be announced and
the presentation of awards will occur later that same evening. The
presentations will include awards given by 18 committees of the
Society.

Our thanks to Brian Eklov, Past-Chairperson, for submitting the application!

<p>
<a href="https://www.acs.org/content/acs/en/funding-and-awards/awards/community/chemluminary.html"
  title="Learn more about ChemLuminary Awards">
  <img src="/images/logos/chemluminary-2018.jpg" alt="chemluminary logo"
	class="img-default" />
</a>
</p>

<p>
<a href="https://www.acs.org/content/acs/en/funding-and-awards/awards/community/chemluminary.html"
  title="Learn more about ChemLuminary Awards">
 Learn More
</a>
</p>



# Multisection Mixer at CERM

<p>
 The Midland, Kalamazoo, Western Michigan, and Detroit Local Sections
 invite you to a Multisection Mixer during the ACS Central Regional
 Meeting.
</p>

<p>
 Friday June 9, 2014<br />
 4-6 pm<br />
 The Gallery at the Henry, CERM
</p>

<p>
 Are you attending the ACS Central Regional Meeting running June 6-10
 in Dearborn? If so, please plan on attending a multisection mixer
 at the meeting being presented jointly by the Midland, Kalamazoo,
 Western Michigan and Detroit local sections. This will be an
 opportunity to network and make new connections with other ACS
 section. Exchange ideas with other local section members and
 leaders. Perhaps those in attendance can leave with some ideas on
 how to create and plan new multi-section events!
</p>

<p>
 Multisection RSVP: Steve
 Secrest, <a href="mailto:stevesecrest37@yahoo.com">stevesecrest37@yahoo.com</a>
</p>

<p>
 <a href="http://acscerm2017.org" title="CERM 2017 website">
  <img src="/images/logos/cerm-2017.jpg" alt="CERM Logo" class="img-default" />
 </a>
</p>

<p>
 Register for CERM <a href="http://acscerm2017.org/register/" title="CERM registration">here</a>
</p>


# Great Lakes Region Meeting

The KACS local section is a member of the Great Lakes Region.

Please visit the region's new website to learn about our region.

<p>
 <a href="http://greatlakesregionacs.sites.acs.org">http://greatlakesregionacs.sites.acs.org</a>
</p>

<p>
 At the new website you will find:
 <ul>
  <li>Information regarding the 2017 Great Lakes Regional Meeting in
   Fargo, North Dakota June 27-30</li>
  <li>Details on four awards to be given at that GLR meeting</li>
  <li>Nomination requests for worthy award recipients</li>
 </ul>
</p>

<p>
 <img src="/images/regions-map-2017.png" alt="ACS Region map" class="img-default img-responsive" />
</p>

<h1 id="awards-gathering">Report - KACS Awards Gathering</h1>

Monday, May 8, offered inviting weather for our 44th celebration of
our Section's Award Ceremony. Approximately 95 students, parents and
friends gathered in the atrium of the Chemistry Building at WMU to
celebrate the accomplishments of High School students and a teacher,
College students, as well as to recognize service to the American
Chemical Society and to the local section. Our Examination
subcommittee chair, Dr. **James Kiddle**, was his typical efficient
self in administering the requisite examinations and in making all the
necessary arrangements for this gathering - the d&eacute;cor and food
were much appreciated.

Our section chairman, **Steve Secreast**, introduced our two College
awardees (one from Kalamazoo College and one from Western Michigan
University) followed by our Outstanding Chemistry Students as
nominated by each student's teacher (each of the 9 present received an
Amazon Gift card and a certificate) and ended by naming and giving
awards to the 21 winners of our competitive scholarship examination -
we had a tie for first and fourth places and a 4-way tie for seventh
place! The students were happy to let us know their future plans, most
of which involved STEM study.

The teacher recognized was Ms. **Michelle Mason** from Portage
Northern HS. The **Section award for service** went to Mark Wolf who
has continued as our section webmaster despite his move to Chicago for
graduate school; **Brian Eklov** received a Salute to Excellence
plaque; and **Doug Williams** received the 2016 Volunteer award from
the Committee on Community Activities for his major role in our 30th
annual Museum Event.

It was very heartening also to recognize **3 60-year members of ACS -
D. C. Wendt, Ray Judy, and Chuck C. Coverdale** - and *6 50-year
members - John Engelmann, John Greenfield, Mike McCarville, Alan
Sarapu, Lydia Hines, and Doug Morton** (in absentia); each of them
received a certificate of appreciation from ACS for service to the
Society.

This year's event was a wonderful reminder that the future of our
science is in "good hands" and each attendee seemed to enjoy the
opportunity to meet friends who come each year and to make new
acquaintances.

<div class="row">
 <div class="col-md-6">
  <img src="/images/events/awards-ceremony-2017/student-awardees.jpg" />
  <p class="caption">Student awardees</p>
 </div>
 <div class="col-md-6">
  <img src="/images/events/awards-ceremony-2017/college-awardees.jpg" />
  <p class="caption">
   Sarah Glass, Kalamazoo College awardee
   Jacob Kirkendall, Western Michigan University awardee
  </p>
 </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
 <div class="col-md-6">
  <img src="/images/events/awards-ceremony-2017/teacher-awardee.jpg" />
  <p class="caption">Michelle Mason, Portage Northern Chem Teacher, Awardee</p>
 </div>
 <div class="col-md-6">
  <img src="/images/events/awards-ceremony-2017/service-awardees.jpg" />
  <p class="caption">
   50-year members present
  </p>
 </div>
</div>

<h1 id="cced">Report - Chemists Celebrate Earth Day</h1>

It seems like Chemistry outreach events come around quite often!
Every Spring brings Earth Day, celebrated on April 22; the American
Chemical Society participation, now in its 15th year, coincides with
that day. Local Sections are asked to conduct outreach activities in
their communities, and our Kalamazoo Section has done that for all but
the first (pilot) year.

Each year we have offered activities and materials at the Kalamazoo
Nature Center (KNC) during their Earth Day celebration; for two of the
14 years we had an additional outreach event at the Oshtemo Branch of
the Kalamazoo Pubic Library, and for the last two years, when the
Library has not held an Earth-Day theme event, we have cooperated with
the Green-a-thon experience at the Celery Flats in Portage.

This year the theme of Chemist Celebrate Earth Day was "Chemistry
helps feed the world". Also this year our Section has been fortunate
to have a group of Chemistry students at Western Michigan University
who have taken a keen interest in reaching out to young people with
experiments which would engage them. These demos were done at The
Celery Flats on Saturday, April 15 and at The KNC on Saturday, April
22. They made chromatography flowers, and they worked with the
patrons to identify starch in food-stuffs as well as other items in
daily use; they also offered educational materials. Students who
helped at the Kalamazoo Nature Center were Renae Mroczek, Megan
Callaghan, Emily Hanners, Jessica Henderson, Erin Heath, Greg Johnson,
Jake Kirkendall, Dyonna Almon, and Dejainara Davidson Those who worked
at the Celery Flats event were Hervin Crespo-Sandoval, Jerome Davis
Jr., Erin Heath, RenaeMroczek, Greg Johnson and Jessica Henderson.

This year was unusual in that April 22 was also the day of a new
activity, the March for Science, which in Kalamazoo ended at Bronson
Park for the inaugural Kalamazoo Earth Day Celebration. The weather
was perfect for the hundreds of attendees, who from 3-8 pm enjoyed
music, food, science podium presentations and about 50 science-related
exhibitors.

KACS was there as a sponsor/exhibitor. Tom Runge, Doug Williams and
Steve Secreast ran our KACS booth, which centered on a participatory
green chem demo where we had people convert iodide in aqueous solution
to I2 using just a 9-volt battery. Based on the volume of reagent we
went through, we had at least 150 people try the demo. It was great
fun watching people scoping us out as they walked by our booth, and
then when we called them over and had them try it, seeing them really
get into the whole thing. Was great too, seeing many people just
wanting to talk about chemistry once we started speaking to them. We
also had some giveaways that we handed out, the biggest hit being
pocket periodic tables, which was cool to see.

We received many thanks from the celebration organizers, in part for
being a sponsor, but more for being one of the few exhibitors
providing a demo for people to try. Talking chemistry and science is
fun, but actually doing it is much better. Doug took the photo below
of Tom and Steve in our booth. Additional photos of the celebration
are available on the Celebration’s Facebook page at
<a href="www.kalamazooearthday.org">www.kalamazooearthday.org</a>.

<img src="/images/events/cced-2017-table.jpg" />

<h1 id="march-for-science">Report - March for Science</h1>

Over 800 people turned out in Kalamazoo on a beautiful sunny day to
cheer the importance of science in government by gathering at the
center of the WMU campus and walking to Bronson Park on the afternoon
of Saturday, April
22. The <a href="https://www.facebook.com/events/193517247792978/">
Kalamazoo event</a> was coordinated by ProKzoo with assistance from
the Kalamazoo Nature Center. The American Chemical Society announced
its support for the event a month earlier
in <a href="http://cen.acs.org/articles/95/web/2017/03/American-Chemical-Society-backs-March-for-Science.html">Chemical
&amp; Engineering News</a>. Local section member Doug Williams spoke
briefly to those gathered in Kalamazoo. His remarks are below.

<blockquote>
 <p>
  It is a privilege to speak today on behalf of our local section -
  the Kalamazoo Section - of the American Chemical Society, the
  largest scientific society in the world. The ACS is supporting
  the national March for Science as a nonpartisan event to celebrate
  the contributions of science for improving the human condition and
  addressing the world’s most pressing challenges. ACS is pleased
  to join its support with the American Association for the
  Advancement of Science, American Geophysical Union, American
  Association of University Professors, California Academy of
  Sciences, New York Academy of Sciences, Society for Neuroscience,
  Sigma Xi, and the Union of Concerned Scientists. The March for
  Science coincides this year with the Chemists Celebrate Earth Day,
  a nationally coordinated annual program to recognize the
  importance of chemistry in understanding our planet and her
  ecosystems. Our local section is conducting outreach events today
  at the Kalamazoo Nature Center and Bronson Park. The theme of
  this year’s ACS outreach event is "Chemistry Helps Feed the
  World." I encourage you to stop by our table in Bronson Park
  after the march.
 </p>
 
 <p>
  Science is a means of knowing, a philosophy. The natural and
  physical sciences are the study of the material and energy
  universe that we occupy. This knowledge is gained by experiment
  and it is supported by repeatable and documented testing. The
  practice of science is often an individual endeavor but to be
  useful, results must be shared openly and critically.
 </p>
 <p>
  So why are we here today? At this time in our nation’s history,
  we are witnessing broad and politically significant rejection of
  scientific understanding - of earth’s climate, of energy use, of
  water resources, of food, of public health. Individually, we may
  have strong feelings about the priorities and potential solutions
  to these issues. We won’t resolve these differences quickly but
  to resolve them at all requires scientific understanding. In
  other words, ignorance is not a strategy. I repeat, ignorance is
  not a strategy.
 </p>
 <p>
  I suggest to you today that responsible government has two
  compelling reasons to invest in science. The first and most
  obvious is to protect us. We need science to help us preserve our
  ecosystems, control diseases, keep us warm, feed us and reduce the
  harm of natural disasters. The second and, I believe, most
  important reason is to realize our potential. Science expands our
  capacity to live more fully, to imagine what is possible, to
  support an ever increasing human population on Earth sustainably
  and more equitably. In this way, science provides hope for the
  future, creative solutions and - yes - humility for our place in
  the universe. I believe that good government also has an interest
  in our collective humility. Scientific skepticism teaches
  humility and persistence. Many a beautiful theory has been
  crushed by ugly facts. We have often had to change our thinking
  about technologies that we thought were acceptable and safe. As
  examples, think of tetraethyl lead, chlorofluorocarbons, DDT,
  thalidomide, PCBs and, recently, nonbiodegradable microplastic
  particles in our lakes and oceans.
 </p>
 <p>
  So, we must keep working at this. Our world is complex and
  science proves it again and again. Our pursuit of scientific
  understanding is filled with mistakes and false starts but this is
  exactly the point. The scientific method is self correcting for
  those who persist. Did I mention that ignorance is not a
  strategy?
 </p>
 <p>
  Government has fundamental and compelling reasons to invest in
  science. Our best practices suggest the following principles for
  making these investments. Government should:
  <ol>
   <li>Openly share scientific findings. </li>
   <li>Subject such findings to peer review and require validation of methods and results.</li>
   <li>Strongly support science education and research, basic as well as applied.</li>
  </ol>
 </p>
 <p>
  Scientific literacy is an asset to our nation, to our citizens.
  We ask our government to feed this literacy by example and
  commitment. Let’s have a great march today and spread the
  message.
 </p>
</blockquote>


<h1 id="councilor-report">Councilor Report 253<sup>rd</sup> ACS National Meeting</h1>
<h2>San Francisco, CA April 2-6, 2017</h2>
<p class="author">By Lydia E. M. Hines</p>

As has been the custom for the past several years, ACS hosted an
Outreach Event just prior to the meeting in San Francisco, on April
1. It was my pleasure to help at that event where we saw many families
come by to explore science topics and receive the plentiful materials
our professional organization makes available.

The Council selected Bonnie A. Charpentier and Willie E. May as
candidates for 2018 President-Elect. These two candidates, along with
any candidates selected via petitions, will stand for election in the
Fall 2017 National Election.

Our Kalamazoo Section was recognized for its 75th anniversary.

The Council voted to set the member dues for 2018 at the fully
escalated rate of $171. This rate is established pursuant to an
inflation-adjustment formula in the ACS Constitution and Bylaws.

On the recommendation of the Committee on Local Section Activities,
the Council approved a petition from the Santa Clara Valley Local
Section in California to change the name of the section to the Silicon
Valley Local Section.

On the recommendation of the Committee on Local Section Activities,
theCouncil approved a petition from the Santa Clara Valley Local
Section in California to change the name of the section to the Silicon
Valley Local Section.

The Committee on Nominations and Elections (of which I am a member)
solicits Councilors' input of qualified individuals for
President-Elect and/or Directors for future consideration.
Suggestions may be sent
to <a href="mailto:nomelect@acs.org">nomelect@acs.org</a>. This
Committee works diligently to find excellent people to recommend for
positions on committees and the Board. At this Spring meeting we
deliberated for a minimum of 25 hours outside of the council meeting
which, for committee members, starts at 6:30 a.m. on Wednesday
morning.

As of December 31, 2016, the ACS membership was 156,129, which is 0.5%
less than on the same date in 2015. The number of new members who
joined in 2016 is 23,700. The Society's overall retention rate is
83.5%. The Committee on Membership Affairs also reported that the
number of international members has increased to 27,388, exceeding the
committee's target by 5%. Retention of graduate students increased by
2% to 76.2%.

Meeting Attendance: As of Tuesday, April 4: Total Attendance: 18,850

<h3>Special Discussion</h3>

The Council conducted a special discussion, *ACS Yesterday and Today:
Paving the Way to Tomorrow*, to gather input for the Joint Board-CPC
Task Force on Governance Design. Forty Councilors approached the floor
microphones to share observations, comments, and suggestions to assist
the task force in identifying opportunities and issues for governance
improvement. The task force offered three questions to guide the
discussion: What should the Society and its governance do differently
to achieve its objects? If you could change one thing about ACS
governance, what would it be? What should the task force leave "as
is"?

The Board of Directors is developing a statement based on the
Society's Core Value of diversity and inclusion in response to the
repeal of the North Carolina law known as House Bill 2 ("bathroom
bill") and similar proposed legislation in Texas, and is assembling a
representative group of stakeholders to advise it on actions relating
to the location of Society meetings.

The Board passed a resolution expressing appreciation to Denise
L. Creech for her 27 years of service in the Membership and Scientific
Advancement Division, which she led as director for nearly 14 years.

Note: I appreciate the opportunity to serve our Section as your
councilor and am always available to facilitate your contact with ACS.

<h1 id="job-posting">Job Posting</h1>

Bridge Organics, a contract research and chemical manufacturing
company located in Vicksburg, MI, has an opening for a full-time EHS
and Quality Specialist.

To see details for the position and candidate qualifications, as well
as to submit a resume or application, navigate to the MichBio Career
Center or the Bridge Organics website
at <a href="http://bridgeorganics.com">bridgeorganics.com</a>.
