---
layout: about_page
title: Ingemar B. Forsblad
---

FORSBLAD, Ingemar B. of Augusta
===


Ingemar B. Forsblad, age 89, passed away at Bronson Methodist Hospital
on August 22, 2016. He was born on June 18, 1927 in Gteborg, Sweden,
son of Axel and Elsa (Andersson) Forsblad. He had been a resident of
Portage since 1959. Ingemar grew up on his family farm in Vstergtland,
Sweden, attending elementary school in Herrljunga. After completing
education at a 3-year technical college at Bors, Sweden, he worked
several years in industry, using his interest and skills in
chemistry. Not satisfied with his engineering degree, always wanting
to know more, he set his goal on university studies, which brought him
to Uppsala University, where he joined the Chemistry Institute in
1951. After seven years of research, he received a Ph.D. degree in
Organic Chemistry from Professor Arne Fredga. New goals were set, and
Ingemar applied for a post-doctoral fellowship at Florida State
University with Professor Leffler. During the year at FSU he
interviewed for permanent employment at various industries. The offer
of choice came from The Upjohn Company in Kalamazoo, Michigan. In 1989
Ingemar retired after 30 years with the company, during which time he
advanced to Plant Manager of Fine Chemicals. He received a W.E.Upjohn
Award in 1973. Now retired, he could enjoy his hobbies of photography,
art studies, gardening, and skiing. He was a member of the American
Chemical Society, the Kalamazoo Institute of Art and The Gardenettes
Garden Club. He also became a Master Gardener through MSU Extension
Services. Skiing was his passion. With 40 years of season passes at
TimberRidge Ski Area, he often left work to enjoy downhill skiing. On
weekends he would delight in teaching his children and grandchildren
the art of skiing. He enjoyed travels to visit famous gardens and
interesting countries like Portugal and Costa Rica, during which
travel he always carried his video camera for later showing of
beautiful movies. Ingemar was preceded in death by his parents, a
brother, Bengt, and a brother in-law, Per Trnros. On April 6, 1957 he
was united in marriage to Karin (Rosengren) Forsblad, who
survives. Also surviving are a sister, Mona Trnros, Gteborg, Sweden,
children, H. Peter Forsblad of Kalamazoo, and Annika M. (Brian) Piazza
of Plymouth, Indiana, and grandchildren Benjamin and Annalise Piazza
of Plymouth, Indiana, and several nieces and nephews. A cremation has
taken place. There will be no funeral or visitation. A memorial
service will be held at a later date. Memorials may be directed to
Kalamazoo Institute of Art, Portage Public Library, or any
organization of your choice. Arrangements were made by the Langeland
Family Funeral Homes, Memorial Chapel, 622 S. Burdick St.