---
title: Climate Change Grant
layout: page
---

Kalamazoo chemists win grant to explain climate change to the public
===
Press release: *For Immediate Release*
---
Released: 2013-04-25

WASHINGTON - Members of the Kalamazoo Local Section of the American
Chemical Society (ACS) are winners of a $3,000 grant to help public
audiences better understand the science behind climate change. The
announcement was made at the Society’s recent national meeting in New
Orleans.

According to Elke Schoffers, Ph.D., chair of the Kalamazoo ACS Local
Section, the local section will collaborate with the Western Michigan
University Climate Change Study Group to reach out to diverse
audiences. They will use concepts from the ACS Climate Science Toolkit
as part of the training of community leaders — education directors in
faith-based congregations, middle and high school teachers, and scout
leaders and merit badge counselors — to lead discussions of climate
change in settings where they can be better allied with positive
personal, group and public identities.

The ACS [Climate Science Toolkit](http://www.acs.org/climatescience) is a
web-based resource that explains the chemistry and physics of climate
change. Launched last December, it was one of the major initiatives of
2012 ACS President Bassam Z. Shakhashiri.  Kalamazoo is one of 12 of
the Society’s local sections that will receive the first ACS
Presidential Climate Science Challenge Grants.

Shakhashiri explained that the mechanisms of climate change are based
on fundamental concepts that may not be familiar to scientists working
in disciplines unrelated to climate change. They need a robust
understanding themselves in order to help others who are not
scientists understand the issues relevant to maintaining a livable
climate.

“These inaugural grants will encourage ACS members to take up the
mantle as scientist-citizens and reach out with climate science
information to their colleagues and others,” said Shakhashiri. “These
include teachers, college and university faculty, industrial
scientists and business leaders, civic and religious groups,
professional science and educational organizations, and elected public
officials at all levels and in all branches of government.”

The grants, $3,000 each, were awarded to the following ACS local
sections: Central New Mexico; Dallas-Fort Worth; Illinois Heartland;
Iowa; Kalamazoo, Mich.; Maine; New York; Northern W.V.; Portland,
Ore.; Puerto Rico; Puget Sound; and Wakarusa Valley in Kansas.

The American Chemical Society is a nonprofit organization chartered by
the U.S. Congress. With more than 163,000 members, ACS is the world’s
largest scientific society and a global leader in providing access to
chemistryrelated research through its multiple databases,
peer-reviewed journals and scientific conferences. Its main offices
are in Washington, D.C., and Columbus, Ohio.

To automatically receive news releases from the American Chemical
Society, contact
[newsroom@acs.org](mailto:newsroom@acs.org "E-mail ACS Newsroom").

<p>
  <b>American Chemical Society</b><br />
  <b>Office of Public Affairs</b><br />
  Contact: Joan Coyle<br />
  202-872-6229<br />
  <a href="mailto:j_coyle@acs.org" title="E-mail Joan Coyle">
    J_Coyle@acs.org
  </a>
</p>
